7-1-2012:3:48 PM. Yay! It has a name! I'm so excited for this book!8-7-2012:4:19 PM. Why does this have likes?! Haha. I can't wait for the cover! I heardCasshas seen it!Of course, I'd prefer to have a male on the cover. Not JUST a male, maybe a well-dressed Maxon (with his face concealed [I hate when publishers put non-concealed faces... It makes me feel like Ihaveto picture the characters like on the covers]) with America in his arms.Or maybe the Elite girls in pretty dresses. I just hope it's more than a girl, like onThe Selection.Don't get me wrong, I loved that cover, I just want more!10-2-2012:10:49 PM. Is everyone excited about the cover reveal on the 17th?! I know I am!10-4-2012:5:01 PM. Okay... They revealed the cover early. I'm a little... disappointed. Don't get me wrong, it's beautiful, but it's just... the same has the first one? If this book is supposed to be wrapped around the Elite Three, shouldn't there be more than just America?BUT THAT DRESS IS BEAUTIFUL, AT LEAST.5-9-2013:I FINALLY got my greedy little hands on the copy ofThe Eliteand what can I say...? WHEN IS THE NEXT ONE COMING OUT? It was absolutely brilliant reading this novel! You may want to clear your whole schedule because once you start reading, stopping to do anything else will annoy you!Without further interruption, here is my review of this gem. (:4 out of 5 stars!CoverAs you may or may not have read in my sweet ramblings at the the top here, I'm... not a huge fan of the cover but I won't complain about it- ok, yes I will- it's SIMPLE and I simply wanted more. I do not like the non-concealed face of the woman and the dress is just... I don't even think this dress went along with any of he dresses in the story! BUT, nevertheless, it looks absolutely lovely sitting next toThe Selectionon my bookcase, so I'll give it that.General SummaryIn this installment ofThe Bachelor meets The Hunger Games meets Twilight.... No, just kidding. (;In this installment by the lovelyKiera Cass, Prince Maxon has to decide between the final girls left in the selection, or better known as the Elite girls. All the while, America, our lovely heroine, is still trying to debate on who she wants to be with- Prince Maxon or Aspen- or better yet, The Crown or her Childhood.Along the journey, America has to watch as Prince Maxon tries to fall for the other girls (breaking MY heart) and the girls are set out to do tasks that a future queen would likely do- such as a project (and America's idea is... scandalous to say the least).In the mix of all the lies, love, betrayal and... whippings comes the horrible rebels who are after something... something to do with books. Something, America has to figure out.Opinions, General Fangirl Squealing, andSpoilersPRINCE MAXON I LOVE YOU.Well, aside from my pure and complete fascination and devotion towards Maxon, the book was,... so-so. I did like it a lot better than I did the first (hence the 4 stars), though it WAS lacking and I couldn't help but get a bit annoyed with America's "I love Aspen. No I want Maxon. But Aspen is safe. But I love Maxon. But I don't want the crown..." blah blah blah blah BLAH.And there wasn't much Maxon to even begin with. I mean, he was there and he was all lovey dovey and mushy and brilliant, but most of the time it was just America talking about him.Only for Aspen to ruin it. Now, I'm not an Aspen hater, I'd respect it if America ended up with him, but I wouldn't like it at all. I just don't think he is encouraging enough towards America. He wants her to be brilliant- but as long as he is somehow involved. He wants her to do this and do that and be herself but be quiet and respectful and he doesn't think she can handle the Crown? No. That is not someone I want to see America with. She's a bright, young girl and I'd love it if someone who is encouraging of her ideas would be with her.Celeste... Celeste, Celeste, Celeste... You and I had problems in the first book, ma'am and I told you to back off Maxon and just blend in with the background (and for the most part you honored that) but you HAD to go and pull that little thing with Maxon, you dirty girl. I wanted to reach into the book and give Maxon a shower since you had your hands all over his Prince-lyness./glares at her/I'm happy for Marlee, at least. I'm going to miss her. (:And what of these rebels? What are you guys after...And King Clarkson... I'm watching you... Leave America alone. Her idea was splendid!All in all, the book was lovely, not everything I had hoped for because there are still A LOT of unanswered questions (and I mean A LOT), but I'm hopingCasscan wrap them up nicely inThe One. I'm hopeful it'll be a brilliant series.AND I HOPE THE COVER FOR THE NEXT BOOK IS GREEN (hint hint Miss Cass, if you're reading this).