How is one supposed to review a book like this?! HOW. I ASK THAT.THE ONLY THINGS YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT A GAME OF THRONES:a) It's truly incredible.b) It's really really big.c) The story is no where NEAR completed, dangit, I need book 2 asap.d) There are truckloads of winning adorable characters.e) But even the villains are human (sometimes) and have sorrowful backstories.f) Although ^^ that saying ^^ there are several people I would like TO DIE. Of course, they survived.g) It made me angry and sad and happy and excited and horrified and disgusted and terrified.h) Basically I felt ALL OF THE THINGS.i) GO READ IT.j) Why are you still here?k) It's really really worth reading, okay?l) but the audio is the best way to attempt it if, like me, you're terrified if big thick heavy fantasy books.m) I possibly have a small crush on Jon Snow. I'm sure it'll pass. WHEN HE DIES. (HAHAHA. no. But he's so awesome I guess he'll die soon.)n) Yes it's violent and there's sex but neither is as graphic as I expected from its infamous reputation.o) The Starks have favourites amongst their children and it sucks.p) Does anyone even care about Arya Stark and where she is?q) Everyone is like "Oh yeah there's another sister, but idek what happened to her. Maybe she'll show up?"r) Which is unfair. I like Arya.s) And, honestly, Cersei is awful, but I kind of don't hate her yet. She's driven. She has psycho children. She's seriously messed up. But she's very smart and cunning.t) Lots of people died.u) Sometimes it made me sad. Sometimes happy. I'm psychotic like that, but seriously, this book is more psychotic.v) Eddard Stark is an idiot.w) I kind of like Tyrion.x) Everyone's names are awful but hard to pronounce.y) I LIKE DRAGONS.z) I've run out of letters, so this is all I'm going to say, but seriously, I enjoyed it a LOT, but I'm probably giving it 5-stars because I spent 2+ months listening to the audio and that is an EFFORT and deserves commending. Or cake. Just give me cake. Also comfort because I'm not a happy poppet right now. THE ENDING HURT.I totally get why people love these books and hate the author.It's ALL RATHER INCREDIBLE AND MARVELLOUS.