P.S. I Love You is an unusual choice for me since it starts off with the protagonist dealing with the death of her husband. Those who have seen my book collection would note that I go for high drama and sweeping romances, stuff for romantics who are in love with love. I always get the ones that start with the heroine being taken by the hero not realizing that they have been falling in love in the process. I couldn't say what drew me to the book but I picked it up and brought it with me to the cashier.The book starts with Holley Kennedy keeping to herself a few months after the death of her husband Gerry Clarke. Holly and Gerry have been together since high school and Holly's world revolved around Gerry since then. Gerry was diagnosed with a brain tumor and rounds of medical procedures have not stopped him from succumbing to the death that it brought with it.Holly closed off to everybody, wallowing in the grief that Gerry's death brought. She had no appetite and no desire to continue with her life as it was before Gerry passed.Ahern's storytelling style had her cutting back and forth from the present to the past, illustrating the relarionship that Gerry had with Holly, her family and their circle of friends. Through these flashbacks, the readers learn that they shared a joke called "The List" which Gerry promised Holly he would write for her so that she can cope with the loss of Gerry. As Holly realized some time in the story, of all of Gerry's promises, this was the hardest for her to accept since it meant that he was gone.Turns out that Gerry did prepare a list for Holly some time between his medical procedures. He sent a package to Holly's parents' house which contained individual envelopes labeled from April to December with a letter to Holly that she open an envelope per month to do Gerry's list for her.The tasks went from buying a bedside lamp (since it was always a nightly thing for them to argue who would get out of bed to close the bedroom light) to conquering her fear of karaoke to a wonderful Spanish vacation with her closest friends, to finding her dream job. In between the tasks, Holly learned more about her family and friends as well as how life continues despite the all the loss.Ahern created compelling characters that tell about growing up, the poignancy of loss and of rediscovery. The characters are real people that they seem to jump out of the pages and at me. They are flawed and human in their reactions and in their choices.It rocked me to the core since it made me think of the what ifs. It made me realize that I have a wealth of family and friends by me. We may not always get along but we bring value and joy to each other's lives.