This book can be summed up in one sentence: Bathsheba Everdene's milkshake brings all the boys to the yard.Okay - now that I am more awake - I am ready for more of a review!I was leaning 5 stars, but something about the end brought it down to 4.Click the spoiler for my thoughts on the ending:(view spoiler)[Gabriel Oak is too good for Bathsheba. I didn't want him to be all like "Okay, now that you have ruined two men's lives, you finally want to marry me so let's do it". I wanted him to say "Hell naw, biatch!", drop the mic, and walk off into the sunset! If he had done that, 5 stars all the way!(hide spoiler)]Many books these days are all about the love triangle. To get into the crazy love shapes that are occurring in this book. You need a degree in Advanced Geometry. What is great about each "point" of the relationship "shapes" in this story is that each represents extremes of nobility, arrogance, insanity, patheticness, immaturity, and complete disregard for how their actions affect those around them (until it is too late). Because of this, you get a lot of fascinating drama and fascinating character behavior."Madding Crowd" - frequently when I read a classic, I like to follow up with reading about it on Wikipedia to get some side facts and trivia. I discovered that the word "Madding" means "frenzied" and the title is actually a tongue-in-cheek joke. The book takes place in what is supposed to be a bucolic and peaceful setting "Far from the madding crowd". But, with the adventures and misadventures Bathsheba, Oak, Boldwood, Troy, and Fanny, the drama might just be crazier in the countryside!And, speaking of tongue-in-cheek humor, I love Hardy's delivery of descriptions throughout this book. Almost every description has hints of cynicism and sarcasm. I think most people imagine this book as a drama, and it definitely has its dramatic moments, but I found myself laughing at the silly characters, their silly actions, and the silly descriptions quite a bit. Bravo, Hardy!So, if you have been holding off on this book because you think it is a boring and stuffy classic, think again - that could not be farther from the truth. Give it a go, its pretty darn good!