Review the FirstA brilliant play that I must now make a priority to go and see along with a live production of Hamlet and The Crucible. I particularly loved the way Shakespeare provided his characters with greater depth than in other plays and this will become one of my favorites along with Hamlet.The Merchant of Venice clearly reveals Shakespeare's vast wit, a fact that he has become noted for amongst scholars. Not to mention the manner to which he vastly added to the English language which was at the time of his writing immensely limited compared to what it is today. Not only that but its intricate twists and convolutions wrap around a clever and well developed plot which I found far more entertaining than his tales like Romeo and Juliet.(view spoiler)[ The very logical claim of 'you can have one pound of flesh but no blood' made me smile because it was so literal and to the letter of the law.(hide spoiler)]Shakespeare's tale also reveals highly modern ideas. The women in his play are independent and strong. They are the sole reason that Antonio survives the ordeal before him in the end. Another modern idea is revealed in the challenging question by Shylock when he states:I am a Jew. Hath not a Jew eyes? Hath not a Jew hands, organs, dimensions, senses, affections, passions; fed with the same food, hurt with the same weapons, subject to the same diseases, heal'd by the same means, warm'd and cool'd by the same winter and summer, as a Christian is? If you prick us, do we not bleed? If you tickle us, do we not laugh? If you poison us, do we not die? And if you wrong us, do we not revenge? If we are like you in the rest, we will resemble you in that.This is the idea that despite differences in beliefs, ideals and appearance all people are humans. We all bleed, eat, sleep, dream and feel similar sensations in life and to that regard should not trample upon anyone as lower than us.For all of these reasons I encourage anyone to read this play as one of the prime examples of Shakespeare at his finest. Not only is he a play-write extraordinarily, but a man of modern belief and great insight. So read his work and be astounded. Or better yet view it in its full glory upon the stage.Review: the SecondToday I finished my re-read ofThe Merchant of Veniceand have found new and more academic ways of reading and enjoying the play. Given that of the (approximately ten) Shakespeare plays that I have read this is one of my favourites of those plays it is interesting to see how academics have approached the play. It is, interestingly, one of Shakespeare's most controversial plays and often considered a 'problem play' - in other words the ending is meant to contain a kind of irresolution that promotes question and deep thought in the audience. For it certainly has no nice easy wrapped up ending.What is the genre of this play? A romantic comedy and a tragedy is the typical view held of the play - comedy in this instance meaning that individuals who don't necessarily deserve to gain wealth and fortune somehow 'ridiculously' or 'absurdly' do. In the case of this play the comedy resolves around what happens to the fortunes of Bassanio.Most of the debate in our tutorial and lecture so far has resolved around two key points. The first being is Antonio a homosexual? The second being is the play anti-Semitic? My response to both questions is no. I do believe those academics who claim that we cannot open Shakespeare up to psychoanalysis and must instead look at the historical period in which this was written. A period in which homosexuality was not perceived as part of your identity like it is today as much as by the actual sexual acts. Therefore, while Shakespeare clearly shows that Antonio loves Bassanio I do not think one can necessarily equate this to erotic love.The same goes for the portrayal of Shylock - though at times he falls into stereotypes of Jewish characters, the fact that he is a Jewish character and holds a level of incredible complexity means to me that Shakespeare may not so much have intended to be showing racist portrayals as much as using the concept of 'the Jew' as seen in popular theatre of the time (he even stole the idea of the pound of flesh in demand of cash from a fellow writer) to explain a concept. Whether this concept is the hypocritical tensions of the 'Christian' world at the time or how pre-judging and living by the letter of the law leads to destruction is again up for question.This remains a complex play full of nuances (and as you look into the words Shakespeare used you realise how many puns, innuendos and pop-culture references are stuffed into his dialogue). You also may notice as you read that some characters at times purposefully slip back into prose rather than lyrical speech. This was interesting to note as there is a preconception that Shakespeare wrote in nothing but verse.I would finally like to make the suggestion that what truly makes this play so fascinating (aside from the lack of satisfaction from the ending) is the symmetry of it. You begin with Antonio giving his bond for Bassanio and you end with Antonio giving his bond for Bassanio. Near the middle of the play you have Shylock losing his daughter and his ducats, at the trial scene you have Shylock losing everything. There is a test of love that fails near the beginning of the play and near the end you again have a test of love that fails. One could perhaps suggest then that the very middle of the play is when Bassanio claims his wife. However, I ramble, my point is merely that there is a rough symmetry to this play, with events foreshadowing each other and this creates the comedy and tragedy of the play whilst the very titleThe Merchant of Venicesuggests that this play is about legality, bonds (of romance, love, law, money) and agency more than purely any of the characters.