YET ANOTHER READING, December 15, 2009I forced my class to read this book for their reading time, which is usually reserved for personal reading time.They loved it.I can't think of a better endorsement. No other book I know of can get the full enthusiasm of both an English teacher and a classroom full of stratified and unique, individual students--especially when they have been forced to read the book.Why? Because Cyrano has a universal appeal that spans generations. Because Cyrano is funny. Because his tale is adventurous. Because it is unblinkingly sincere and puts away pretenses, if even for a few, beautiful and believable moments. Because we all hope to attain the kind of love that Rostand presents in his protagonist. Why? BecauseCyrano de Bergeracrings true in the deepest and surest sense that any literature I have ever read has ever been able to attain.Wow. That is a pretty epic and sweeping recommendation, you might think, but it only touches on the wide range of emotions I get when I read through it. And now, as I think back on this past reading and the several readings from before it, I cannot think of any book, any piece of literature, anywhere that has a more favorable spot in my heart. No other piece of literature has the ability to make me laugh, cry, smile satisfied, or yearn tragically with as much poignant ability as this piece.Cyrano is my hero, and, according to his inspiration, I hope to preserve my own white plume up until the very moment of my death. What a beautiful person Cyrano is; what a beautiful character Rostand has created.Read it. Just read it and find the Cyrano in yourself, because he is there, in all of us ... that much should be as plain as, well, the nose on your face.PREVIOUS REVIEW, 2006, 1997, othersOne of the most balanced, talented pieces of literature I have ever read. Plus, I think that Edmond Rostand, besides being extremely clever and funny, has a few scenes of such startling, raw truth and emotion that I've never found an equal in other works I've read.