Ah, Cyrano. You never disappoint me. How many times have I read your story? How many times have I laughed, cheered, cried and sighed over you? Too many to count, and there will be many more in the future. You are my hero.But did you know you were a real person? Wait, that sounds silly. Of courseyouknew that, but how did it slip my own mind? Maybe other times when I read the introductory note to Edmond Rostand's wonderful play about you, this phrase never took hold in my little pea brain:The character of Cyrano was real.But this time it did. I googled you and sure enough, there you were, bigger than life. And you were a writer yourself! Knowing that helped me understand better than ever the scene with De Guiche outside Roxane's house. You know the one, where you fell from the moon in order to distract him long enough for....well, you and Rostand and I know why, but I cannot say because other people who have not have read the play yet could be reading this someday and I would hate to spoil anything for them. Anyway, De Guiche tells you that you should write a book about your trip to the moon and you say you will. I am about to read that book now, Cyrano. I look forward to your own words, even though they will not be in the form of love letters.I understand that Rostand romanticized your life when he wrote his play, but I would like to believe that he captured your panache perfectly. And I loved how he had you meet D'Artagnan in Act One! I thought it was a brilliant touch, even though it was only a handshake and a few words from him to you. Brilliant because as you know, D'Artagnan himself was a real person, and you probably did meet him at some point or at the very least knew about him.You took your real voyage to the moon in 1655, only 36 years old. So young to die, even for those years, don't you think? But you were here, you made your mark in the world. And thanks in part to Rostand and his play, you will be remembered forever. I hope you are happy there on your moonbeam, and can still catch golden stars in your cloak.