Review4 out of 5 stars toThe Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, one of the "Great American Novels" byMark Twainpublished in 1884. I've actually read this book twice: once as a 14-year-old and again in college as part of my many American English courses. My interpretations have expanded with the second read, but it's still at the core, a very profound book worth reading at least once in a lifetime.Huck Finn and Tom Sawyer appear in a few of Twain's novels, but it is in this one where Huck truly becomes a character, especially through his relationship with Jim. It's the type of book to openly challenge the norms and ideals of the mid-19th century, relationships between various races, treatment towards fellow humankind. Over 135 years later, this book is still pertinent to society today. So much needs to evolve and change, and perhaps with literature, it will move a little more each day -- at least as one of the necessary driving forces.At times, I tried to forget that the book was calling out differences between treatment of ethnicity and race in America at the time. I wanted to think about it also from the perspective of two human beings who needed each other for survival, growth, life experience and comfort. Being color-blind and able to connect with someone, even if you don't see them or no much about them, is an important lesson in life. And one so few of us have an opportunity to experience.One book can't change it. One book can't truly explain it. But knowing what was happening 135 years ago versus what is happening now is important. As is what peoplethoughtback then... not just what they did. If you haven't read this, as an American, it's your responsibility. Understand the past and history. Know what it was like. Read it from 135-year-old words. And decide what you can do to keep things moving forward at a quicker pace... to help us all figure out how to ditch the differences and embrace the fact that we're all humans who need the same things to survive.About MeFor those new to me or my reviews... here's the scoop: I read A LOT. I write A LOT. And now I blog A LOT. First the book review goes on Goodreads, and then I send it on over to my WordPress blog athttps://thisismytruthnow.com, where you'll also find TV &amp; Film reviews, the revealing and introspective 365 Daily Challenge and lots of blogging about places I've visited all over the world. And you can find all my social media profiles to get the details on the who/what/when/where and my pictures. Leave a comment and let me know what you think. Vote in the poll and ratings. Thanks for stopping by.Note: All written content is my original creation and copyrighted to me, but the graphics and images were linked from other sites and belong to them. Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544][polldaddy poll=9719251]