This book may fool you. It's not a once-upon-a-time tale, nor is it just for children. When I first picked up this book, all I knew about it was that a trusted friend - whose book recommendations have never led me astray - loved it. I was under the impression that it was for children, and even though I am a self-described kid at heart and stalwart defender of children's literature, I thought it would be a light read, devoid of any complexities. Well, I was wrong.The story begins in the lilac wood of the unicorn. She soon discovers that she is the last of her kind when she overhears two hunters discussing how once there used to be unicorns and maybe that they never existed at all. The unicorn is old and has always lived alone, but she decides she must venture out of her forest to see if it is true that she is the last. From the moment that she leaves, the unicorn encounters adventure and trickery. She is mistaken for a simple mare, she gets caught and is displayed as a freak show act, she meets a failed magician named Schmendrick, and ultimately, has to face her enemy, The Red Bull, at the desolate castle of King Haggard. Through it all, the unicorn changes and learns to understand the basic human needs for love and friendship.From the first page, I quickly realized that Beagle's writing is far from simple. I found myself reading and re-reading sentences and paragraphs, sometimes puzzling out a second, hidden meaning. In other circumstances, this could have gotten old and fast. But here, the writing was too rich to pass over quickly and with each re-reading, I was able to mine more pleasure out of the story. What interested me most about the story is the way that Beagle takes the theme of the mythical nature of unicorns and infuses the story with it. On the surface, the story is a bittersweet tale about a special creature who seeks to find her own, but underneath, there is a second story about perception and belief in the unbelievable. I really have no nitpicks with this book - five stars for both writing and enjoyment.