Magical. One of the best children's fantasy books that I've ever read. The prose is as enchanting as the unicorn. Everytime the unicorn appears, thinks and speaks, I am thrown out of this world. Peter Beagle (born 1939) is a scintillating American author and he's got a equally dazzling character to mark his place in this literary world - none other than what people say as a legendary yet fictional animal, the most important imaginary animal of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance - the unicorn.However, Beagle did not stick to the unicorn as depicted in those bygone era of Middle Ages and Renaissance nor he used the unicorn as mentioned several times in the Holy Bible. Here, the unicorn can be turned into a beautiful lady,Amaltheathat is also the name of a Greek deity. Amalthea has a love interest,Prince Lir,who is actually an adopted son of the King who captures all the other unicorns and Amalthea would like to free them back to the forest.That in essence is what this book is all about. I withhold the other characters and events so I will not spoil the fun of those who are still planning to read this. Trust me, though, that this is not your typical children's book because the prose is too beautiful for toddlers to appreciate. If James Thurber's "13 Clocks" is too dark, this one of Peter S. Beagle, "The Last Unicorn" is too beautiful for the simplistic minds of children, especially small children. However, it is not as complex as let's say, J. R. R. Tolkien's "The Lord of the Rings." Nothing can compare to that book. This unicorn book is great but there is just nothing that compares to LOTR. No debates, please.I am glad I finally gave time for this book. My weekend yesterday became my best alone-in-the-house-weekend because of this book. My wife and daughter were busy buying Christmas gifts and I was there sitting on the easy chair in the living room devouring this book about some far away ancient palace with an evil king and a beautiful unicorn-turn-lady-turn-unicorn-again Amalthea. Beautiful prose. Easy to read yet scintillates in its beauty. I could almost hear the gallops, the forest,the wind and the mystical bells every time the unicorn appears and moves. Unforgettable fantasy book. Just unforgettable. Wow.