This second volume in the Tom &amp; Huck duology has Huckleberry Finn narrate his own story.We follow the boy after the events from the previous book (though reading both isn't strictly necessary). He's come to have quite a sum of money that is being kept for him by responsible and nice people. However, "Pap" (his drunkard father) wants a piece of the pie so to speak. Thus, trouble starts early on.We follow Huck when he tries to break away from the strict life of having specific times for breakfast and supper and school and wearing nice clothes and being clean. We follow him when he actually enjoys school or at least wants to attend in defiance of his alcoholic father. And we follow him to a not quite as deserted island as he thought. From there, we embark on a journey with him and Jim through the American South along greater and smaller rivers, encountering all kinds of folk and living through all kinds of dangers.Through his eyes we get a close look at the people around him, at the social system, at slavery, at small and big crimes, at friendship.Many people apparently have a problem with the slang Mark Twain used here. However, the slang is authentic (yes, I checked). And yes, back then black people were slaves and did get called the n-word. So characters in this book owning slaves or calling them the n-word - while not being nice or right - is realistic. I hate it when people demand books get rewritten because they no longer work with our current/modern sensitivities. You can't edit history and you also shouldn't because that way you never have to confront the mistakes of the past and can therefore not grow as a society.The funny thing about my comment above? The author not only created an authentic tale about the American South of that era, he was himself a staunch critic of slavery and used many moments in this and the previous book to show that clearly, too. So people are actually demanding to edit someone who tried to change society for the better. Oh, the irony.Anyway. Yes, this is stronger (more political, just as critical of religion, less mellow) than the previous book. Most people even say this isn't YA (unlike Tom's tale). I disagree. They are both YA. But Mark Twain wet people's appetite with a more innocent story before whacking them over the head with this one and making sure they learnt their lesson. Young readers can definitely handle this despite the less innocent tricks and learn a great deal besides (not just about how to be a successful con man *lol*).Sure, it's dark-ish, what with the domestic violence, alcoholism, the failures of the judicial system, slavery, ... but we also get the nice and relaxing (almost soothing) descriptions of the woods and the river as well as Huck's often funny take on society and religion or his superstitions that make you chuckle or even laugh outright just as much as the tricks he likes to play.As mentioned in my very first status update, I read this Word Cloud Classic together with the audiobook and the audio version was narrated by Elijah Wood. I'd have to look up where the little hobbit originally is from, but I don't think he's from the American South so I can tell you that I was very pleasantly surprised when hearing his performance as the southern accent isn't the easiest and he did a great job.