I had begun reading this laying down and drinking the words in steadily but before I knew it I was sitting on the edge of the sofa and forcing to keep up my eyes focused enough not to move too far ahead. I promised myself I wasn't going to write a spoiler review though Ireallywanted to. Without giving spoilers I can't stress how much a certain line did this or what took me by surprise but y'all are just going to have to read it to feel and see what I felt.EVERYTHING is finally explained. Thank goodness! It was fun to guess along the way to see if you were right. Sometimes I was off and not entirely sure but part of the excitement is having the dawning realization of"Oh yeah!!! I can see that now!"Definitely is the best of the series and not only because of the plot and resolution, but because of the development of the characters. As far as I could see Clary grows the least but she does. She always was a little more "emotionally" in tune than the others were. The character that makesHUGEstrides is Jace. He started to grow on me in the second book but I absolutely get him now. There is this one line that he says (it's cheesy but who cares) that made me totally melt. *WARNING* if you don't like moments bordering on the cheesy side you may want to read something depressing instead. All the characters we have grown attached to have grown up to be a better version of themselves. One of the most impressive ones I'd say (other than Jace) is Isabelle, which is displayed well in the conversation she has with Clary in the kitchen.This book is charged with all the elements we are used to but make them ten fold because this is the end. Emotions, battles, loss, betrayal, surprises, and even the jokes carry that much more meaning to them. Out of all the books this one would have to be the most serious. I know that there was always the element of sudden danger, but this one is more so and we don't get to see as many sarcastic comments (which is understandable) but there are still there to ease the tension.I want to gush and gush over everything but I had to say Valentine seemed to fit into the series finally. I always felt he wasn't a villain material but he is, and I can't say why because again a spoiler. Best way to wrap up the series and say goodbye to the Shadowhunter world.Later note: Find out there is a fourth one!City of Fallen Angels