4 Stars!Buddy read withThe Salty One:')I'm late. I know... this was supposed to go up however long ago but I've been so busy I haven't had time D: anyway here we go!So this isn't my favourite book of TMI, the first section of the book goes so slowly for me for some reason and it took a bit of time for me to get myself fully emerged into the book, however once I got past that I was invested! Although saying that, the first chapter started off intense and I was there for it!The story really does come together a lot more in this book, and it's main focus isn't on a love triangle (this is one thing I really disliked about the first two books, because IloveSimon as a character and in those books I wasn't a fan of him to say the least (even though I knew I loved him later on) but moving on. Not only did we see less of this, but more of Alec, Izzy and Magnus! We see the friendships become stronger between all of the characters and I enjoyed this aspect much much more!Not only this but we got new and exciting characters, we hadSebastiandun dun dun! Is it wrong that I secretly like him? I mean everyone loves a bad character right? Not only this, but we get to see Aline again and the fact that she wasn't really into Jace just makes me laugh thinking what's to come (but secretly crying inside because anything TDA related hurts my heart because they're all too precious for this world).One of the things I also don't like is Clary as a character, I think she's a marmite character, you either like her or you don't and I'm not a fan, I think because she's a know-it-all and always thinks she knows best (when this isn't the case). I just can't be doing with her.I wanted more of the battle, but at the same time, the snippets we did see were very enjoyable and I liked the coming together of the shadowhunters and downworlders, I mean who can deny that?!This time around we got so much backstory, and it was worth the wait, I loved the way in which it was told, we got Angels, deceit, parents?!, uprisings, The Mortal Instruments, Magnus playing a character so much more!THE LOVE BETWEEN MALEC. MY HEART!"Why didn't you call me back"ahahahahaha!Wolves!Overall, I did enjoy this, like I said it's not my favourite of the series, but still enjoyable. As I haven't read this series in SUCH a long time, I forgot pretty much everything apart from one thing (which I refuse to forgive). I can't wait to continue on with the re-read, this is probably a hot mess, butttttt this is what happens when I leave my reviews so late D:City of Bones- 5 StarsCity of Ashes- 4 StarsCity of Glass - 4 StarsCity of Fallen Angels - RTCCity of Lost Souls - RTCCity of Heavenly Fire - RTC