Elevating and Transcending Genre: McCarthy and 'Existentialist Crime'[WARNING: Here there be spoilers.]Another world unrolled like a carpet of dry, golden plains when I started reading 'No Country for Old Men'; the prose was vivid, but every word was a careful expenditure of idea and style. Cormac McCarthy is not an overly descriptive writer. But the antelope hunt in Southwest Texas that leads Llewelyn Moss to the bullet-riddled cars and corpses of the silent cartel battlefield is told with absolute clarity. It played out somewhere in my cerebrum like a memory, nearly identical to the film adaptation by Joel and Ethan Coen. It is a testament to the genius of all three men that the movie felt like a 'remake' of the 'original film adaptation'... by which I mean the film that played out in my head.McCarthy condenses his prose into clean, spare lines of poetic brevity. The skeletal structure of his language is porous, like the bones of eagles and vultures: it can take flight when it needs to fly, it can sink its narrative talons into heavy prey and dead-ugly notions, it can take to the air with these blood-soaked prizes. Very few writers are comfortable with the high places he makes for his home, or the low places where he hunts for stories. His narrative voice marks him as a blood relation to Faulkner, with a casual grandiloquence strained from the apocalyptic cryptograms of Revelations and the more ominous books of the Old Testament.'No Country for Old Men' was not well-received by many of McCarthy's fans, seen as an unnecessary digression from literature, 'slumming' in the ghettos of genre-fiction. But if 'NCfOM' is a 'crime novel',and it is,McCarthy not only matches the genre's previous high water marks, but with 'No Country For Old Men', he floods the deep-carved banks of the Genre's narrative current with all the force of a million-year old glacial dam's final collapse, ice-cold waters turning parallel genre streams into a mega-river before spilling into an impossible system of ancient and carefully engineered locks, dams and channels, flowing to feed into the archetypal ocean of human knowledge. The channel of Philosophy was built for regulating the tidal algorithms and powerful undercurrents that would protect the data by isolating whatever play-science variables find important to objectively judge just how sea-worthy the vessels of hypothetical Philosophy truly are as they pass through the system. Dostoevsky's 'Crime &amp; Punishment' was probably the first work of fiction to navigate both the well-traveled central canal/canon of Western literature AND the philosophical channel of proto-relativism. It was portrayed as it had to be: a cautionary tale, concerning an arrogant young man who renounced god and imagined himself beyond good and evil. But all the questions asked by the existentialism of Sartre and Camus are plainly asked or hiding in subtext: How can I justify the restraint of selfish, natural impulses if good and evil are arbitrary and outdated notions used to manipulate the weak-minded? Is a morality based entirely on logic and serving individual needs possible? Is it cowardice to submit to a moral and legal code that contradicts one's core philosophy? In a world without gods and heavenly rewards, how can the individual justify self-sacrifice? With nothing but the void waiting for us after death, is dying to keep a secret that will save lives justifiable... when the world essentially dies with you? This presaged the overtly existentialist currents of Albert Camus' 'L'Etranger', with their fictional meditations on the dilemmas facing atheist or agnostic protagonists who let their individualistic philosophy guide their actions, taking them into territory deemed immoral and criminal, and then trapped inside hostile legal institutions with illusions of permanence and religious foundations built on shifting moral sands. NCfOM should also be read as a conflict between the conservative notions of right and wrong held by Sheriff Bell, and the terrifying personification of moral relativism and the Nietzschean ubermensch, Anton Chigurh. Again: 'No Country for Old Men' is a perfect example of great writing that both elevates genre and transcends it...(view spoiler)[High-Brow and Crime &amp; Semi-Crime Fiction Favorites:00. Cormac McCarthy01. Jim Thompson02. Dashiell Hammett03. Raymond Chandler04. Denis Johnson05. James Carlos Blake06. Thomas Pynchon07. James M. Cain08. Jonathan Lethem09. Richard Price10. Dennis Lehane11. Charles Willeford12. James Ellroy13. Richard Stark14. Norman Mailer15. William S. Burroughs16. Ron Hansen17. Michael Chabon18. Paul Auster19. Charles Portis20. Larry McMurtry(hide spoiler)]Just as Llewelyn Moss declares war on Anton Chigurh, after realizing that the only way the assassin will let the woman he loves live is by sacrificing his own life, the Mexican drug-lords find him instead. The narrative symmetry that favored a violent showdown between Moss and Chigurh is thwarted, in a shocking subversion of genre expectations. And just as the enigmatic killer makes good on a terrible promise, as smart and deadly and unstoppable as some capricious Celtic god, his car is T-boned at an intersection, and he is badly injured.A Random Act of Traffic; it comes too late to save a life, or to offer anyone an advantage -- Chigurh is the last piece left on the board. And it's not a punishment, or a condemnation, since his 'sins' would demand a far more severe accounting. It once again demonstrates that even the hardest and most terrifyingly competent killers are not immune to the many ways the world can kill us without caring or trying. Whatever plans we make, they cannot compensate for the endless variables that number our days.Sheriff Bell struggles to keep up. As the 'Old Man' of the title, his experience and intellect are not enough to stop the killer it is his sworn duty to stop. He is unable to protect the citizens it is his sworn duty to protect. His thoughts punctuate the action as philosophical prologue, interludes, and epilogue. His failure to understand the callous ease with which these younger men unleash death and suffering is a failure of age. The predatorial hunger and greed that drives the various gangsters of the borderland is something that fades with time. The willingness to inflict harm remains, but not the eagerness, and killers that survive long enough to get old delegate these tasks once their hair has gone grey.McCarthy rarely provides physical descriptions of his characters, leaving it to the reader to cast the roles. There is one scene in the novel that I felt was integral as a foreshadowing to the seemingly inevitable showdown that never happened. It's also one of the most powerful and suspenseful passages in a book that is perhaps more gut-wrenchingly suspenseful than any other I've read; this is a truly existential crime novel, lacking any connection to myth or morality, subverting reader expectation and creating a sense of near helplessness. With Cormac McCarthy, the reader always finds himself in terra incognita, without signs or maps or lines of demarcation. The sun is always buried behind the clouds, but that doesn't mean it's going to rain. In safer continuums of literature, an overcast day always foreshadows The Storm.This unpredictability is not a forced gimmick, it's thematic honesty, now that the young gods of chaos have taken an empty throne unchallenged. Archetypal heroes will die unsung and unmourned. The moon will break in two, and drown the earth with its blood.The pivotal confrontation between the protagonist and antagonist, as it occurs in the novel, further establishes expectations of a 'good guy'/'bad guy' dichotomy that doesn't really exist; but McCarthy uses it to perpetuate the illusion before exposing it. When the Coen brothers significantly altered this scene in the film, after remaining so faithful to the source material, it surprised me.Anton Chigurh's insistence on killing anyone who knows both his name and his face is a promise he fulfills several times throughout the novel. In both the book and the film, after Moss has checked into a motel room following his first close call, he realizes there must be a tracking device hidden with the money. He uses this device to get the drop on his pursuer. In the film, the dead-bolt is blown in by the compression-powered cattle-killer, stunning Moss. He fires blindly, then escapes through the window. In the novel, however, Chigurh enters the room quietly using a key -- which would have made more sense in the film as well, since he killed the motel-clerk. Moss waits until he enters, and manages to catch him off guard. Moss and Chigurh face one another, with the killer kept at gun-point, hands raised. It is here, through Moss's eyes, that the reader is provided with their first and only description of Chigurh: "(...)an expensive pair of ostrichskin boots(...) Pressed jeans... The man turned his head and gazed at Moss. Blue eyes. Serene. Dark hair. Something about him faintly exotic. Beyond Moss's experience." I won't explain how the stand-off ends.This is not McCarthy's best work... that honor goes to 'Blood Meridian'. But it's one of the most powerful crime novels ever written, and it is far more than a crime novel. Norman Mailer, Thomas Pynchon and Denis Johnson have all immersed themselves in the genre, and written excellent books. But 'No Country for Old Men' tops them all, in my opinion (and those are three of my favorite writers). Even though writer Michael Chabon, a brilliant author in his own right and a fan of McCarthy, dismissed 'No Country for Old Men' in his essay collection 'Maps and Legends' as an unfortunate effort unworthy of his talent, I think the novel will be remembered differently by most. Now that it has been adapted, and is one of the greatest films ever made, it will be nearly impossible to separate them. But this is a novel that deserves to stand alone.More Art-book ReviewsMore Comic-book ReviewsMore Novel ReviewsA Mysterious Review That Might Be Related to the Book in Question, But Written By Someone Else Entirely