Wow. This book was a very pleasant surprise. Absolutely one of the finest works of fiction I've ever read. It's unfortunate that it's technically science fiction because that stigma will cause many to dismiss it out of hand. That would be a big mistake, as this is a great novel regardless of genre.Speaker for the Dead is a sequel to Card's best-known work, Ender's Game. I read that first and enjoyed it, but it is The Hobbit to Speaker's Lord of the Rings. It helps you understand the characters and names of things and places better, but reading it first is not essential to appreciating the story in Speaker. Although, if you enjoy Speaker half as much as I did, you'll want to (re-)read Ender's Game next anyway just to get more background on Ender himself and the events of his childhood. So you may as well start there. :)Speaker for the Dead reminds me of other epic, character relationship-focused novels such as One Hundred Years of Solitude or Midnight's Children. Here the advanced future technology stands in for the magical realism of those works. Unlike much science fiction, the characters are very well realized and developed, as are their relationships with each other. Card's background is in psychology, not technology, which makes the book much more accessible to those who aren't big sci-fi geeks (and, I would argue, a more interesting story over all). As an example of this, the book focuses on the painful effects space travel has on human relationships (because of the time dilation effects of relativity, a voyage of a few weeks for those on the ship lasts several decades for those they leave behind) rather than how the propulsion technology works.The story revolves around a small colony of Brazilian Catholics on a planet they've named Lusitania. They discover another intelligent species on this planet, the second humanity has ever run into. We wiped out the first such species in an act of self-defense, but we have since come to regret this action after realizing it was based on mutual misunderstanding. So humanity is determined not to let the same thing happen here.This story of epic scope is told from the perspective of the family who is charged with studying this species on Lusitania and the small community of the colony in which they live. We see 3 generations of this family over the course of the book, but most of the novel focuses on Novinha (pronounced no-VEEN-yah) and her 6 children. The family's broken home and lives of quiet desperation are interrupted only by death, on several occasions and twice at the hands of the alien species. These deaths deflate humanity's hope of peaceful coexistence with the aliens.Into this mix comes Ender, who has a very unique connection to the first alien species we wiped out (I won't say anymore about that because it's a spoiler for Ender's Game). He is now a Speaker for the Dead, which is a sort of humanist priesthood of people who learn about those who have died and speak the truth of their lives, their hopes, fears, intentions, virtues, and vices. He is called by several members of the family to speak the deaths they have experienced in an act of defiance of the Catholic hierarchy that essentially runs the colony.As I've implied, the characters are what make this book great, and that applies to all of them, human or otherwise. The alien species on Lusitania are called "piggies" because they resemble pigs who walk upright and speak. They are a fascinating creation of Card's imagination and you grow to care very much about them and a few individuals in particular as you read the book, as does Ender in the story. The humans' attempts to understand their culture and help them to understand ours are a central component of the book and cast many things we take for granted in a fascinating light.This book is a wonderful story of redemption; of old misunderstandings and pain turning into mutual respect and love via decades of blood, sweat, and tears; of humans (and non-humans) learning and growing and being better than our worst demons; and of loss and suffering planting the seeds of new loves and lives.It's a story spanning thousands of years and a hundred worlds, but told in the most intimate of settings, a single extended family. It shows humans at their best and their worst, and makes you care a great deal about the individual characters all the while. I can't recommend this novel highly enough.