Peace Like a Riveris a stunningly beautiful and memorable debut novel by author Lief Enger, that left me breathless and in tears. This classic tale is related by our eleven-year old narrator, Rueben Land, and assisted by his eight-year old sister Swede. Once immersed and in the rhythm of this sometimes sparse but beautiful prose, one becomes deeply involved in the tale of the Land family and the pull of family bonds and the resilience of those ties. Rueben Land is convinced that miracles abound and that his father, Jeremiah Land, is touched by grace; he has seen it. I first became aware of this book when it was selected by Mayor John Hickenlooper for his newly launched program,One Book One Denver,in 2001. Several years later, my grandson, at the time twelve-years old, spied it in my library one snowy winter evening in front of the fireplace and then began to regale us all with his synopsis and impressions of the book as he had just read it with his reading class. This is a book that comes with high praise and heartfelt recommendations."When I was born to Helen and Jeremiah Land, in 1951, my lungs refused to kick in. . . . . . . As Mother cried out, Dad turned back to me, a clay child wrapped in a canvas coat, and said in a normal voice, 'Rueben Land, in the name of the living God I am telling you to breathe.'""So the spell of the West, cast already by Mr. Grey, settled about Swede like a thrown loop. There's magic in tack, as anyone knows who's been to horse sales, and a rubbed saddle, unexpected and pulled from nowhere, owns an allure only dolts resist. Swede's was a double-rigged Texan with red mohair cinches, tooled Mexican patterns on fender and skirt, and a hemp-worn pommel. It was well used, which I believe gave all of our imaginations a pleasing slap, and it had also arrived quixotically.""Well, we all hold history differently inside us. For Swede such episodes retold themselves into a seamless and momentous narrative; she had a Homeric grasp on the significance of events, and still does; one of her recent letters asks, 'Is it hubris to believe we all live epics?'""It is one thing to be sick of your own infirmities and another to understand that people you love most are sick of them also. You are very near then to being friendless in this world.""But in that dark hour I thought only that it had been a long time since Dad had charged me in the name of God to draw my first breath. Since he walked by grace above the earth or touched a worn saddle and healed it clean. And I thought, Without a miracle, exactly what chance do I have?"