It's the 28th century, through a little accident ( some people do not believe it was), Earth has been destroyed by scientists, over 400 years before, the inhabitants have dispersed, they struggle in two hundred different planets, to survive, in the vast galaxy, an Empire called Hegemony, rises, to protect or is it to exploit them ? But with civilizations growing and changing, in desert planets, ocean worlds, jungle lands, mountains regions, the expanding universe goes on forever, how can any rule ? On the world called Hyperion, a strange, frightening looking being lives, the Shrike, some hate it, others love, all fear, and many want to kill the creature, animal or machine, no one knows, in the valley of the Time Tombs, huge structures, ( some kind of time travel device, incomprehensible) , the evil thing kills without mercy, or feeling, but a cult evolves from this ruthless entity, the bizarre "church", has many shrines around the empire ... Now war against merciless barbarians, Ousters, descendants from Earthlings, living outside the Hegemony, is about to begin, faster than light speed transportation, has been achieved, total destruction is now possible, billions can be slaughtered, by unseen powerful weapons, only dreamed of, by their ancestors. The Shrike, by way of his followers, invites seven humans on a pilgrimage, to visit him (yes, this is a homage, to the Canterbury Tales). The priest, Father Hoyt, sick, tired, taking drugs, losing his faith, the soldier, Kassad, who has seen too many deaths, in too many battles, retired, the boisterous poet Silenus, famous for his first poem, now unable to finish one, not liked by his companions, the scholar, Weintraub, carrying, his infant daughter Rachel, the one person he loves, medicine has failed, she gets dangerously younger, every day, he would do anything to save her, the Starship captain, Masteen, from the mysterious Templar Brotherhood, keeping secrets from the others , the detective and only woman in this group, Lamia, as tough as any man, who still can weep, having lost her love, and last but far from least, the cynical, brooding consul, ( name not stated), he has information from the top, the legendary Meina Gladstone, she controls the empire, ( the omniscient computers, in reality), by unethical political maneuvers, enemies would say, that a spy is among them, maybe he knows more than anyone else, returning reluctantly, to the planet he formerly governed, and always enjoys looking at the nightly sky, as the meteor showers, light up the darkness . They go up endless rivers , stormy seas, remote lands, in aerial trams, high above the ground, telling stories, when the pilgrims stop to rest ... and finally walking slowly in the eerie valley of the Shrike, to their doom , all believe, but continue on, holding hands, one begins singing an obscure song from old Earth, everybody joins in ... " We're off to see the Wizard "... A brilliant novel, that of course has a sequel, three, in fact.