4.5/5Ivan 'Shukhov' Denisovich, I ask. How do you function?You have spent eight years in a total of two prison camps, consigned to backbreaking amounts of work in some of the worst environments known to man.If it went down to forty-two below zero they weren't supposed to be marched out to work.Ivan! What could you have possibly done to deserve such a fate? Ah, that's right. You were a POW in WWII, so obviously you collaborated with the Germans as a spy. So you were sentenced to ten years in prison camps, but they could always tack on some more years to that. Just for kicks. After all, you've been in there for a while. Now the standard sentence is twenty-five years, for believers in the wrong religion, for receivers of casual letters from the wrong side, for those in the wrong place at the wrong time in a whole host of arbitrary conditions. So they extend your sentence, to make everything line up. You know how it is.So what do you do in this camp? You're helping to build a compound, one of many workers. But you're not just any old worker. You were a carpenter, before, and if you ever get out, you will be a "free" worker employed as a carpenter "outside". But that's not a likely thing to happen, so now you block up walls with roofing-felt and lay down brick walls and all sorts of things. You only worked with wood outside, but hey, it's easy enough to switch around. All that matters is you get the work done so your gang boss, who looks out for you and gets you larger work rates, doesn't get in trouble. Because there's lots of things to get in trouble for, they want you to do the job but they don't give you anything to do the job with. It's an odd arrangement, but some stealth and threatening posture can go all the way.You can apply the 'odd arrangement' statement to the entire thing, really. All around there are punishments in the 'cooler' that will cripple you with tuberculosis for life, murderers that accidentally slit the wrong persons' throat in the middle of the night, complaints sent to the higher ups that either never make it or come back marked 'Rejected'. And everyone needs to be paid their due if you want your letters delivered, your packages somewhat whole, your beard shaved, with the little you get and the little more than you're not supposed to have.And yet:Shukhov went to sleep, and he was very happy. He'd had a lot of luck today.Such small things you were grateful for. A little extra food, no extra work, no consignment to the cooler. And not only that, but you even felt sorry for your other prisoners, felt a sort of comradeship with them, and helped out when you could. You even looked out for your family, never mind the barbed wire, miles of frozen wasteland, and the unknown amount of years you have left to work that separates you from them.What was your story? How did it come to this, that you observe the abysmal and tortuous conditions around you, the tragic fates of your fellow prisoners, the fact that there is an ache in your body that comes and goes with the passing days, and feel nothing? What did you have to suffer between the time you began and the time now, to stamp you down into a man who feels happiness and maintains a sense of honor, but when it comes to atrocities:He didn't mind. He was used to this sort of business and it would soon be over.I suppose that's too many things to ask. Let's rephrase that into a single cohesive statement.What is your secret to your existence, Ivan 'Shukhov' Denisovich, or perhaps it is Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn? What is the meaning of your life?The clouds roll over the cold light of the moon, and the wind whistles through the barbed wire. The long abandoned compound is silent and still and dark, no prisoners in the barracks and no guards to operate the searchlights. I turn and trudge away, as bundled up as I could possibly be and still shivering in the cold, answer received.