This is a very complex story of two gentlemen from two very different walks of life. Introvert, extrovert... good, evil... Democrat, Republican... you get the idea. It also parallels the generational gap between those set in their ways, and those willing to venture out and explore perhaps a different approach to life. However you dissect it, there is an initial, almost uncomfortable clash between the two main characters in this saga. None the less, you cannot help but continue to turn the pages as you delve into this story, no matter how uncomfortable it may seem at the time. You find yourself relating to either of the characters, and perhaps even a little of both. The main crux of the story relates one man, Sam I Am, trying to please the elderly statesman into venturing into unknown worlds. The elderly character, who is nameless, seems old and set in his ways, seeming to fall back onto years of wisdom, and contradictally, foolishness, as he puts up walls between himself and Sam. Sam is relentless in his persuit to please the elder. Houses, foxes, goats, tunnels, trains, boats, mice. The story finally climaxes as the two characters have experienced a horrendous shipwreck, and as they are fighting for their lives together in the angry sea, the culmination of Sam's efforts converge into one page... a page without a word being spoken. The elder gentleman finally steps outside of his comfort zone, and realizes that he has wasted much energy fighting the personal demons that dwelled inside him. Rescued and back on shore, Sam and the gentleman forge a relationship that is much stronger than it could have ever been, had neither character played the "give and take" game that solidifies our own relationships we experience in our own lives. We see a little (or a lot) of each one of us in both characters, and I believe that the author is trying to deliver a message for generations to come about the importance of harmony in relationships.I highly recommend this book. You can easily finish it in a weekend. Once you start, it will be hard to put down.