Dr. Seuss's Orwellian dystopia finds him once again subverting reality in his funhouse world. He's not being subtle about it either. It's wild that there are whole generations who think this is cute:courtesy ofthis womanwho is undoubtedlysuperniceIf your ham and eggs are green, they are rancid. Ofcoursethey are! That's what greenmeans!They're made of poison now. You're going to get really sick. Tautological nightmare Sam I Am is trying to convince our protagonist - unnamed, likeso manyin Seuss's Kafkaesque universe - to eat rancid food. Understandably, our hero is reluctant. But Sam I Am won't quit. He uses increasingly brutal tactics to break our hero down. Here he is hitting him with a car.Soon Sam I Am will drive the car off a cliff into the ocean - a goat will be involved too, because why not - and here, near drowning, our hero is finally defeated.If this all sounds a little familiar, it's because it'sexactlythe ending of1984.Seuss, one of our darkest and most anguished writers, has a fascination with psychological torture. His nihilistic masterpieceFox in Sockspresents a similar journey: a tormentor relentlessly brainwashes his hapless prey. It'sA Clockwork Orangewith rhyming: "I was cured alright."The tactic at work here is manipulation to make the insane seem sane. If you repeat something enough times, even if it's gibberish it starts to sound like there must be a reasonable argument for it or people wouldn't keep bringing it up. You use simple words, short sentences. Dr. Seuss's publisher bet him that he couldn't write a book using only 50 words.Green Eggs &amp; Hamuses exactly 50 words. They form a lunatic vortex.Say! In the dark? Here, in the dark?Would you, could you, in the dark?Well, no, says our hero. That...that sounds crazy, right? I would not, could not eat green eggs and ham in the dark! Not in the rain! Not on a train! But - but maybe if the chaos would just stop for a moment, I could eat some. Would that...would that be the new normal? If you say "Fake news" enough times, some people will believe that too. It's hard to keep remember what normal used to be. Were there rules? Did anyone follow them? You have to step back, again and again, and re-center yourself. Youdoknow what a sane world looks like. That food is green. It's made of poison. Don't let them break you.