I had first planned on only giving this book three stars, but then I got to thinking about it, and I realized I couldn't.This is a very unique book. I thought it was going to be dystopia-blah, but it really isn't dystopian. There is no corrupt society or government. It's just a beach town where all the adults have disappeared and the kids are trapped inside a giant forcefield.You know, the usual.I think Michael Grant did a really great job with this concept. He explored every angle of what it might be like if every adult with in a twenty mile radius disappeared, leaving behind over two hundred fifty desperate kids, fourteen and under.(It's interesting to think how I personally would react in such a situation. I think I would probably cry for like three days and then hide in the daycare.)However, I wasn't hugely fond of some twists that occurred in the plot.(view spoiler)[The Darkness and the coyotes thing was so bizarre. I totally get the purpose with the animals mutating, buttalkingcoyotes? Really? And the Darkness thing sounded like something out of a really twisted fantasy novel, not what you would find in a post-apocalyptic sci-fi.I also was not on board with Sam and Caine being brothers. Like why is that even necessary? It just felt really dumb and half-hearted.(hide spoiler)]But I really ended up loving these characters. At first, I thought they were all going to be pretty wishy-washy, but I was wrong. They were all very strongly built. (Except Quinn. I hate Quinn. He is a whiny, sexist, racist backstabber.)I really loved Lana and Patrick, but I especially adored Diana.Diana.I have to say, I think she's one of my new all-time favorite characters ever. She's sodifferent;cynical with a sense of humor, smart and sharp without being such a chafe about it(Astrid), and she has almost complete control over Caine, and, in turn, could have control over the entire FAYZ if she wanted.I freaking loved her.While I really want to know what happens to all these characters and get some answers, I also don't really want to dedicate the time to reading five more of these larger books. If this were a trilogy, I would definitely get on that, but six books isa lot.Still, I think I will come back to this series sometime in the future, if just for my girl Diana,instead of looking up spoilers online like I was thinking of doing.