I listened toThe Art of Warfor a few reasons; 1) It was only a hour long, 2) It was free because I am an Amazon Prime member, 3) It was narrated by Aiden Gillen, also known as Petyr Baelish, aka Littlefinger. So, I jumped into it, and listened to it during a car ride.The Art of Waris a well versed, and short guide book to strategize, and tactically win a war. There were tons of great advice, and still relatable today. I would go even deeper that it doesn't entirely reflect on physical warfare, but a verbal confrontation or debate would suffice Sun Tze's philosophical meanings. Even playing chess I could take his guide book, and reflect on the game.It was quite an interesting book, and I found myself grinning at a few verses. Other times I thought to myself what he was saying was really obvious, but again I wouldn't think about it. Sometimes I don't always notice the obvious, but good thing someone points it out. At the end, I don't think I would apply to be a general. I wouldn't be a great general. I am too impatient, and my emotions would get the better of me. I would sometimes take the bait, and I don't always see the full picture. You should see me play chess.Lastly, my imagination formulated a great picture while listening, and it was due to the narrator. By the way he did a great job.Spoilers ahead for GOT if you haven't watched or read the series. Since Aiden Gillen is the little sly bastard Littlefinger on the HBO seriesGame of Thrones, I imagined Littlefinger sitting by a fire, in a plush chair, readingThe Art of Warover and over again. Littlefinger was soaking the information to guide him to play the game, and to win. Here are a few examples of how he uses the book to his advantage: Scouts are important to win the battle, which he has to watch everyone. He sweetens his words to gain ground when there is weakness, and says nothing at all when the enemy is vigilant. He BAITS his enemies to attack, and knows how to TRAP them. Littlefinger you sly devil.It was an interesting read, and I recommend it. You could learn something from it. Happy reading.My blog:www.dancingbetweenthecovers.com