I shiver, thinking about how easy it is to be totally wrong about people - to see one tiny part of them and confuse it for the whole.4 1/2 stars. Back in 2010, I readBefore I Falland immediately thought I'd found a new favourite author. I eagerly awaited every book Lauren Oliver released after it and yet, I have disliked every single one. My dislike for her writing style in books likeRoomsandVanishing Girlsmade me wonder what happened.Could it be that Oliver's style had so drastically changed? Or was it my own changing tastes that had pulled me away from her books?Returning to this book in 2015,it is still as fantastic as I remember. It is truly such a strong YA Contemporary (with a non-realistic spin) and the writing is perfect. The saddest thing about reading this book again was finally understanding how much Oliver's style has changed, in my opinion, for the worse.Before I Fallis about popular mean girl - Samantha Kingston - and her group of popular friends. When Samantha dies in a car crash on the eve of her school's "Cupid Day", she awakens once again in the morning of the same day. Has she been given a second chance? A chance to put it right? To solve the mystery? To prevent her death?For the next seven days, Samantha wakes up on February 12. She must learn the truth behind her unfortunate end and, by doing so, she finds herself tangled up in the lives of those she'd cared little for before.The novel's strength is both in theoverarching story and its outcome, and also in the details. So many characters are affected by Samantha's actions and they become more and more developed and complex as Samantha learns toreally see them. Every character is handled with sympathy, turning mean girls, losers and geeks into human beings, each with their own story.It is a lesson on the dangers of bullying and how careless actions can have a huge negative impact on someone's life. But it also offers an understanding and sometimes sympathetic view of the people who do the bullying. It's such an interesting, multi-layered story.Moving, thoughtful, and just as powerful the second time around.Blog|Facebook|Twitter|Instagram|Youtube|Pinterest