"Two years after I killed Blyth, I murdered my young brother Paul, for quite different and more fundamental reasons than I'd disposed of Blyth, and then a year after that I did for my young cousin Esmerelda, more or less on a whim. That's my score to date. Three. I haven't killed anybody for years, and don't intend to ever again. It was just a stage that I was going through."A glimpse into the mind of this books lead character! Frank, a 16 year old, who lives with his father on the outskirts of a small island community located off the the coast of Inverness. The story was told in from the first person POV of Frank and we followed him through the sometimes mundane but more often bizarre and twisted events of his daily life. We also got stories of his past that gave us a glimpse into his strange upbringing. The other bit of excitement was provided by the fact that Frank's mentally unstable brother, Erik, had escaped from prison and was making his way back home. He phoned Frank a bunch of times along the way.The whole story is a weird mix of disturbing and compelling. Frank is clearly insane but still proves an endearing and compelling narrator despite that fact!I found Banks writing to be engaging and his story to be fascinating and interesting. I loved the first person POV. It was a great choice and really helped paint Frank as a weirdly charming and sympathetic character. I could moan a bit that the ending was a bit obvious but I'm not going to as I do think Banks injected enough red herrings into the story to provide the reader with a bit of doubt.All in all I quite enjoyed this disturbing little story!This was actually my second attempt to read The Wasp Factory. I quit it early in my teens as I did not like the "feel" of the story but I'm glad I returned to it now that I'm a bit older as it definitely proved a worthwhile read.Rating: 4.5 stars.Audio Note: Peter Kenny gave a fantastic performance of the audio. He got everything from the tone of his voice to the characters accent spot on. One of the better audio performances I've heard in a while.