I first read this book when it was published back in 1990. I loved it then, but this second reading meant more to me. It's an extraordinary accomplishment,Possession. Byatt seems to know something about everything, and she is able to weave together so many delicate threads of character and story that it boggles my mind. I cannot read her without looking up quotes and references every few pages, and I struggle to remember how I went the first time round, in the pre-Google days!There are passages in which Byatt is breathtakingly eloquent in her descriptions. More frequently than is usual when I read, I found myself setting aside the book to reflect more deeply and slowly on the richness of what I was taking in. She renders so finely the subtleties of her characters' interior lives that one feels they are real people in real situations, not fictions of her own mind.The poems within the book deserve a separate comment and much more praise than I can give them here but I do want to say this: It astonishes me that Byatt has herself written these poems which she attributes to her poet-characters, Randolph Henry Ash and Christable LaMotte, because they would stand well against any highly-regarded poetry of the era. I enjoyed them enormously, although my taste in poetry generally causes me to shy away from the overwrought High Romanticism of the Victorian poets . . . though, not all of them. Some of my favourite poets are among this lot. But, to my mind, it's a type of poetry that must be executed flawlessly or avoided completely. There is no in-between, because there's nothing worse to read than the fumbled efforts of the Romantics, which come off as sentimental gushing; the vomiting of Too Many Words, poorly chosen. Like a potentially good and rich meal in the kitchen of a bad cook, it induces nausea in all who partake.For myself, I am pleased to say that I feel that I have at last grown into Byatt's writing. I feel that I am a worthy reader of her books now, much more so than when I was younger. If I lovePossessionmore profoundly now than I did then (and recently foundThe Children's Bookto be a miracle in itself), it is only that I have changed, not the books. I needed to experience more, know more, and be more, before I could grasp fully the depth and breadth of Byatt's intellectual, artistic, and emotional brilliance.She writes densely and so will not be enjoyed by people who prefer minimalism or terseness or who are in a Hemingway mood. Not for the first time in my life, though, I have been longing for labyrinthine books lately. I am very much in the C.S. Lewis state that lead him to say, 'You can never get a cup of tea large enough or a book long enough to suit me'. Hear, hear! But, it's even better when the book is magnificent and the tea (or coffee) perfectly brewed. I am glad that now I can go back and read all of Byatt's books that I've overlooked and also that she is still living and writing, so there will no doubt be more to look forward to!The Mermaid, Edward Burne-Jones, 1882 (The Tate, London).