Perhaps the Greatest War Novel Ever Written(Too much? American war novel, then.)'The Killer Angels' stands tall as the best novel about the American Civil War ever written... and therehavebeen many. E. L. Doctorow's 'The March', for example, about the military convoy and its swelling ranks of thieves, whores, and freed slaves following General Tecumseh Sherman's trail of destruction, is a great book, but it doesn't manage to convey the scope and complexity of battle with the grace Shaara does.The narration hovers above the killing fields of Gettysburg like the recording angel itself, examining without judgement the horrors and triumphs, looking into the hearts and minds of the now legendary officers whose fates were decided there. The interactions between an exhausted Lee, who has decided to take the offensive and move into Northern territory for the first time since the war began, and Longstreet, his pragmatic and most trusted friend and general, are unforgettable. Shaara imagines Longstreet's wavering faith in Lee as a near religious crisis. He lets the reader suffer with Lee at the sickening realization he has made a fatal error, wasting tens of thousands of lives on an obvious tactical mistake... and knowing that now he has finally lost a battle, this one loss will likely cost him the war. Shaara's account of the various decisive military engagements are masterful, in particular Chamberlain's heroic defense of his position on 'Little Round Top', one of the key factors in the Union victory.Michael Shaara won a Pulitzer for 'The Killer Angels', an honor he very much deserved. He was not a prolific writer, however, and his best work would be his last. His son, Jeff Shaara, has continued on the course his father charted, telling the stories behind the other great battles of the civil war, as well as going back in history further to create historical novels about the American Revolution and the Mexican-American war.But it is 'The Killer Angels' that remains the masterpiece,perhapsthe best war novel ever written. There are very few books that have managed to convey the heroic grandeur and vast complexity of war, while capturing the sad and curious details, the psychological transformations, the waste and tragic errors. Others come close:Norman Mailer's 'The Naked and the Dead' and James Jones 'The Thin Red Line', for example, both dealing with the Pacific theater of the Second World War. Jones provides a profound understanding of the motivations driving his characters; but Mailer, in his debut novel, became an immediate intellectual powerhouse with a fictionalized account of his WWII observations &amp; experiences, articulating the most complex psychological processes, peeling back layers of delusion &amp; contrived personas, to exposed the petty, ugly, and sadistic roots. He was the 20th Centuries keenest literary observer of human behavior &amp; motivations, and this laser-scalpel of an intellect made 'The Naked &amp; The Dead' an instant classic in the canon of war novels &amp; a powerful work of literature that has retained its shocking vitality over the last 70-years.And then there's 'Count Belisarius', by Robert Graves. It's a lesser-known novel by the greatest writer of Historical Fiction in the English language, following his masterwork, 'I, Claudius'. It a heart-breaking tale of a noble General fighting for the Eastern Roman Empire after Rome itself had fallen to the Germanic tribes; his incorruptible sense of duty, loyalty &amp; competence, is ruthlessly exploited by a weak, petty, jealous &amp; cruel Emperor Justinian. He is sent out against impossible armies who vastly outnumber him, and through sheer strategic genius, brings his Emperor a glorious victory. Justinian steals all the glory, and sends him out on even deadlier missions, greedily stealing all the glory again &amp; again... so jealous of Belisarius, he sends him on suicide missions, which he somehow survives. And for all the victories &amp; sacrifice &amp; loyalty, he is not rewarded, but punished. 'Goodbye To All That' was Graves fascinating autobiography, much of it devoted to his life-shaping experiences during WWI... and it makes as ideal companion to Erich Maria Remarque's 'All Quiet On The Western Front', a novel about the First World War from the German POV; both books are included in the 4-volume WWI-Classics pack picture-linked above.And lastly, 'Tree of Smoke': Denis Johnson's modern masterpiece set amid the chaos of Southeast Asia before and during the Vietnam war. For a clear-eyed but unflinching tale of the various costs that war demands, however, 'The Killer Angels' stands alone.More Art-book ReviewsMore Comic-book ReviewsMore Novel Reviews