Are second chances possible ? Readers of this marvelous book by Jane Austen her last completed, will find out...Anne Elliot 19, tense and insecure, had broken an engagement to Frederick Wentworth 23, the family objected to the poor sailor with no apparent prospects, her father Sir Walter Elliot, baronet, a proud man with a luxury loving streak, ( his late wife, had kept him in check) living in Kellynch- Hall, Somersetshire, the widower was greatly supported by his eldest daughter, selfish Elizabeth now 29, the two are very much alike, handsome, arrogant, cold, looking down at people they think are beneath them, she is the prettiest of his three children, the youngest Mary frequently claiming illness to get attention, would marry easy going Charles Musgrove, scolding him for his perceived neglect, and be unable to control the children. Even Anne's only friend, intelligent, influential, Lady Russell had not looked kindly to the marriage. Eight years have passed, the then teenager is now 27, much more sure of herself and her emotions Anne is, nevertheless always ignored by others, regrets turning down Wentworth who has become a captain with his own ship, war spoils have made him rich, when peace is finally declared, ( Napoleon in exile ) he is free to come home...Extravagant Sir Walter just can't stop himself from spending all his money, a position to maintain in society, dignity demands living like the superior being he thinks he is, the baronet believes and is entitled to this. But going broke fast, Lady Russell and his lawyer friend Mr. Sheperd, urges something , to fix the problem swiftly or ruined soon, Mr. Elliot; the haughty man refuses at first, however reality finally sets in. Sir Walter has to rent Kellynch -Hall quietly to pay the creditors, the shame must be hidden though. Moving to the elegant resort town of Bath with Elizabeth, the most famous in England, seeing important members of the upper class, more his style and enjoys it immensely. Admiral Croft, Captain Wentworth's wise brother- in - law, his pleasant sister Sophia as bright as her husband, married the now retired naval officer, courageously following him from ship to ship, takes ironically Sir Walter's, (the insolvent baronet) fabulous mansion , with war's end there are a lot of unemployed sailors around . The meetings between Anne, ( she stayed behind, for a few months ) and Frederick, are quite uncomfortable you can imagine but with their families and friends so entangled, it can not be avoided. The former couple are nervous, what can they talk about at dinners and parties, traveling to visit a friend, living by the riveting sea, their eyes pretending not to notice each other, which is silly, both are tongue tied and embarrassed, speak very little between themselves, afraid to make the the first move, but in a room full of noisy, interesting people, many are admirers of Frederick and Anne, still only the two, are important to the duo. Will the Captain and Anne, forget the painful past, and be persuaded to resume their love, can the future bring happiness that has been denied the pair for too many years. Wasted by unperceptive family and friends, who never knew their real feelings ? This brilliant novel, asks that question, and the answer while not a surprise, makes for a splendid reading experience...