"Anybody who has had the temerity to write about Jane Austen is aware of two facts: First, that of all great writers she is the most difficult to catch in the act of greatness; second, that there are 25 elderly gentlemen living in the neighborhood of London who resent any slight upon her genius as if it were an insult offered to the chastity of their aunts."Virginia Woolf"Her pleasure in the walk must arise from the exercise and the day, from the view of the last smiles of the year upon the tawny leaves and withered hedges, and from repeating to herself some few of the thousand poetical descriptions extant of autumn--that season of peculiar and inexhaustible influence on the mind of taste and tenderness--that season which has drawn from every poet worthy of being read some attempt at description, or some lines of feeling."Autumn is the time for intro- and retrospection &amp; these characteristics are exploited to the full in Anne Elliot.So who is she? An introvert spinster of 27 who - in that day and age - is considered almos too old to have any chances in the marriage market and destined to be sidelined by society (spinsterhood meant lower social standing, even if you are a daughter of a baronet) and in Anne's case: by her family as well.At the age of nineteen she met the "love of her life", but due to the persuasion of her friend, Lady Russel ("you are too young, he has no social position, no fortune to support a wife, PLUS he is a naval officer, whose life is always in danger" - this is during the Napoleonic wars with France) &amp; the cold disregard of her family, she gave up the engagement. The rejected lover, Frederic Wentworth, thinking her weak-minded and entirely too persuadable, left her for good &amp; Anne, with only a memory of their love, realises -too late- that she made the wrong decision."She had been forced into prudence in her youth, she learned romance as she grew older: the natural sequel of an unnatural beginning."This summary may sound quite melodramatic and very unlike any of Jane Austen's former novels, but her genius is at work, and the book is anything but.Anne is the most isolated of all Austen's heroines. She is to all intents and purposes a "nobody" to her family &amp; to society, with the exception of Lady Russel. Nobody sees her, nobody hears her, her whole existence does not count (curiously, we do not even meet her until the end of chapter 3) and yet it takes Austen's genius to put her in the centre at the same time. We see through her eyes and mind what is happening. She is not noticed, but she notices everything.In addition, she is also forced into a passivity that not even Fanny Price can surpass. In the first part of the novel, JA barely allows her to speak. Her replies/thoughts are always reported (that famous invention of free indirect speech), but we cannot hear her.After 8 years of separation Captain Wentworth (a now successful, rich &amp; high-ranking officer) reappears on the scene - vowing, of course, to have nothing to do with Anne Elliot - and this seems to liberate Anne's repressed energy (which is natural in a way as he was the only one who understood her completely). From that point on, slowly, but gradually Anne's presence becomes stronger: she talks more, she acts more, and she is capable to show the qualities of resoluteness and independence which he thought she totally lacked.This is an amazingly powerful novel and though the notion of "Romantic Love" seems to be much more pronounced, Jane Austen is Jane Austen still -thank Heaven! For the romance is the result of realism (money makes the world go round): when Capt. Wentworth first proposed, he had nothing to offer socially or financially. When he proposes again he has high social standing / fortune through his own merits; and for Jane Austen -always acutely aware of social expectations &amp; pecuniary realities of life - this is necessary for a happy ending."Autumn is a second spring when every leaf is a flower." - Albert Camus