It's a worrisome affair if you have to plod through an Austen work all the while unsuccessfully battling the urge to slap more than half of the central characters. And this comes from someone who is well-accustomed to Austen's often whiny, vain, and hilariously self-deluded characters who serve as comedy gold and tools of subtle social commentary. But somehow in this posthumously published work, I feel she focused her attentions on lathering an extra layer of vindictiveness on to many of the players. Additionally, the first three quarters of the narrative progressed in the most lacklustre manner possible with little to no development on any front. No dramatic confrontations, emotionally charged conversations, simmering sexual tension or witty, flirty banter to spice things up. The overwhelming blandness of it all felt too close to real life situations.But of course, this is Austen. The same woman whose remarkable insight on the condition of women is reflected in a letter to one of her correspondents a hundred years ago.Single women have a dreadful propensity for being poor-which is one very strong argument in favour of Matrimony.The same woman who rescued the English novel from the tenacious grip of the age of sentiment and genre trope hysterics of the gothic novel to give it a truly modern form. The same woman who tried to challenge the laws that governed social interaction of the times by placing as great an emphasis on moral behaviour as on class-based identity.And this very same woman makes Anne Elliot her mouthpiece while arraigning the convention of woman-shaming that contemporary male novelists upheld with gusto and a latent smugness.Men have had every advantage of us in telling their own story. Education has been theirs in so much higher a degree; the pen has been in their hands. I will not allow books to prove any thing.So yes my dwindling interest in the book and abrupt loss of faith in Austen's brilliance lasted only for a few disappointing pages before she turned things around quite climactically. At the ripe age of twenty-seven, Anne Elliot maybe one of Austen's least remarkable heroines. Neither does she possess Emma's sass and cool confidence nor does she exude Elizabeth's unwavering self-esteem and channel a sardonic indifference towards her social superiors. And yet she never backs down from defending members of her own sex from unsavory remarks based on hollow prejudices.It is a difference of opinion which does not admit of proof. We each begin probably with a little bias towards our own sex, and upon that bias build every circumstance in favour of it which has ocurred within our circle; many of which circumstances (perhaps those very cases which strike us the most) may be precisely such as cannot be brought forward without betraying a confidence, or in some respect saying what should not be said.So persuasion. The excellence of this book's central premise is that it establishes Anne Elliot as a woman who is consistent in love and errs only on the side of caution even though outwardly she is perceived as a pushover, one who yields easily to persuasion and incitement. Long story short, Austen ingeniously misled both her hero and her reader to the wrong conclusions about the heroine. And she knew how exactly to subvert the power dynamics of hierarchical social structures while simultaneously preserving the veneer of conformity. If that's not genius, I don't know what is.