4.5/5I powered through this reread for anEmmatag team two-tome essay due in less than a fortnight, so if this review seems myopic in one or more particular directions, that's why. The brutally paced parsing of the text this time around is probably why I found the introduction and afterword so insufferable. Here I was, armed to the teeth with the single minded focus of hacking through the narrative foliage for tidbits of the ideal male mate as prescribed by Austenian code, only to be faced with nearly thirty page long bookends of Sparknote analysis and chewed out trivialities. It's the result of the worst sort of blinkered presumption that, wherein since English isn't rocket science and Austen is Austen, a minimum level of effort is more than acceptable when it comes to getting at the marrow of the stakes at hand. Mind you, anyone who tries to take my words and use them to condemn the Millennials or the immigrants or whatever newfangled ideologies are disturbing their self-complacent entitlement can take a hike. Austen knew what she was about when she made every novel of hers a matter of money, so if you want more of me and less of the status quo, be sure to have your ballots and checkbooks in hand.I've done enough rereading this past school quarter to no longer look at it as most certain slog if done within five years of the previous, but there's also the quality school environment to consider. Beyond all the bureaucracy of identity politics (I'd gladly trade places with the neurotypicals whose biggest concern is being hated by those who they think they want to "help"), there's nothing I love more than new critical perspectives, new paradigms, new ways of chewing through texts which, for all that, hold up admirably enough to justify the expenditure. The hardship, of course, is that I am no longer the person who wrote that first review below after reading the book in community college. I am the one who's encountering the text with the new abstract knowledge of Austen's family having been involved in the slave trade and the new practical knowledge of negotiating with those whose responsibility for college students amounts to little more than a subtle sadism. Deep down, I still enjoy Anne Elliot's character traits on an instinctual level, but I would no longer hesitate on tearing it and this novel apart to suit my analytical purposes. An underdog complex, perhaps, especially when considering this didn't dislodge P&amp;P as my favorite after all, but I want to see the eight-and-a-half years of angst and painful self-reflexivity, not the pretense that everything worked cause, really, nothing had to change.Having now moved through the complete set of complete novels, there is a much stronger feel for the world within which the heroine moves with all its self-obsessed people, manipulating people, disabled people, female people, children, colonialism, sailors, class, and the socioeconomic politics of gender than there was inSense and Sensibility, in the sense of serious consideration that does not pretend the current hegemony is the universal truth. Propriety no longer bows in the face of masculine entitlement, and what plot movement there was in the form of death and degradation was not passed over with the modicum of effort that is deus ex machina. One could make an argument for development/complication/experimentation of prose and grammar, but I am not such a one. I took this class calledJane Austen and Her Peerswith the aim of enhancing an experience that had thus far been a little here, a little there, sizable amounts of love mingling with medium levels of indifference and even some measures of hatred. I'd say I got my money's worth.P.S. Completely missed the part where one of the characters criticizes the main antagonist as having a small dick the first time around. The joys of analysis.---1/27/154.5/5For every work I read and review on here, I read about three decent sized novel's worth of online fanfic. This has lead to some weird and wonderful critical analysis skills, an example being my discussion of a key plot point that started off smooth, spazzed out of giddy control, and ended with a "framing of narratives" commentary that I didn't even know I could do. I blame the afterword of this edition with its "Here's ten academic jargon things that Austen was great at!" that totally messed with my shipping flow, but hey. The prof liked it well enough, even though I'm certain my "He figured out he actually wanted to do the thing by talking about something completely different from the thing" raised no small number of eyebrows.Anyway. Persuasion! Persuasion. I'm so glad the class picked this up because, one, christ this class is a sausage fest, and two, this book is socleverthat I absolutely must to do my first paper on it. You'd think I'd have picked up on this during my three previous Austen books, but either I don't remember them that well or this last one of hers is another kettle of fish entirely. The introduction supported my suspicions a measure with talk about class differences and the coming of a nouveau riche type excitement that Austen was actually pretty okay with, but what really got me was the rhetoric and how invested the author was in stretching those three terms as far as they could go.Unlike the Swift and Pope and Gay that came before in class with their satire and misanthropy and lazy ass indictment of humanity via, you guessed it, women and non-Europeans, Austen's invested in making things work. It comes across the clearest in this work because of the problems she's wrestling of landed gentry versus incoming rich Navy personnel, age, gender roles, cultural ideologies formed by unbalanced representation, and what, ultimately, is right in terms of when, why, and how. This, mind you, is all coming across through a "comedy of manners", a romance wherein everything must happen carefully, subtly, and with the most fine-tuned pieces of rhetoric that English can afford. In short, persuasions of varying overtness and strength prove equally true under various circumstances that no one can always get the right of, or as put by this gem of a gem of a quote:There, he had learnt to distinguish between the steadiness of principle and the obstinacy of self-will, between the daring of heedlessness and the resolution of a collected mind.Morality does not operate in a vacuum, for better or for worse, and any author who can successfully wrestle a meaning from it deserves praise. Stigma against drawing room romances be damned, a writer's apprehension is not limited by the share of humanity they were given. Besides, if you want to be able to appreciate the Deep Universal Things and giggle at the same time, Austen's your woman.P.S. For all my praise, I didn't like this as much asPride and Prejudicebecause of the comparatively low potential for hate-sex. Not academically professional at all, but true.