Updated 12/8/2014Yep, still addictive.Updated 1/23/2011If you haven't been coerced/begged by me into reading this series yet, IDK where you were last month (maybe away from Goodreads?). If you still don't know that these books are awesome and totally worth your time, this is my last attempted to lure you into giving them a chance. However the main purpose of this update is just to follow up on the outcome of this particular series. So many crash and burn in the process, lose their steam and become a waste of time. Not so here.Feverbooks are fantastic from the 1st to the last. This series is a great adventure full of mystery, action, intrigue, intricate fae mythology, sexy guys, and hawt schmexing. I am now going to add an extra star to all myFeverreviews for meeting my expectations and not disappointing me in the end.Original reviewI am no expert on urban fantasy and will not waste any time on analyzing the quality of writing of this genre book, I am just going to say thatDarkfever's standard mix of ass-kicking heroine/amusing cast of secondary characters/lore/mystery/paranormal hunks worked for me.MacKayla Lane is a 22-year old blonde southern belle/bartender/part-time student who peacefully lives with her parents in a small Georgia town. Mac's life is turned upside down when she learns her older sister Alina is brutally murdered in Dublin, Ireland. The search for the murderer is fruitless and after uncovering Alina's last cryptic voice message, Mac decides to go to Ireland and try to push the murder investigation in the right direction. In Dublin MacKayla immediately finds herself thrown into a world of Faery and learns she has a powerful connection to this world...The first thing that drew me to this book was the narrator - MacKayla. My last couple of attempts to explore the genre of urban fantasy were unsuccessful mainly because I couldn't stomach the protagonists. After enduring wimpy and boring Mercy Thompson (Moon Called) and perpetually gloomy and defiant Kate Daniels (Magic Bites), reading MacKayla's "voice" was a relief. She is not particularly smart or strong, but there is a certain lightness about her, and the fact that Mac is not traumatized by some past events is a breath of fresh air too. So many UF heroines, almost as a rule, are some kind of recovering victims. Luckily, Mac isn't one of them.The lore and the setting are enjoyable too.Karen Marie Moningbuilds her fairy world on Irish lore and I think succeeds in it. Her fae are interesting, with their various abilities to feed on humans' beauty, to make their unwitting victims sexually aroused, etc.What might turn off some readers:1) This book doesn't have a conclusive ending.Darkfeveris simply a first chapter in Moning's 5-part story whose major conflict will be resolved in the last book -Shadowfever- out December 2010. Only a few story threads are wrapped up in this installment.2) Lack of romance. It doesn't mean there are no hotties to swoon over however (mysterious Jericho Barrons and ruthless Fae prince Vlane are both irresistibly alluring), but at this point Mac is with neither of these guys.Overall, I enjoyed this book quite a bit. It was fast-paced, filled with entertaining characters and interesting lore. I will definitely read at least the next book in the series -Bloodfever.