Series OverviewClickhere if you can't help your attraction to me.That or, you know, you want to watch my video review.Mr. Kennedy's thoughts on the Fever series (Please note, there will be spoilers):Mr. Kennedy is standing around shirtless, wanting to discuss some of the aspects of the Fever series. I find it hard to concentrate.For goodness sake, Mr Kennedy! Take those sunglasses out of your mouth! I can't hear what you're saying!Me: So what's your favourite part of the Fever series so far (He has read up to Dreamfever):Mr Kennedy: I definitely like Mac better now. She isn't as boring. But she's still doing her inner monologue. That's still really - I mean, it just doesn't end. Does she ever stop doing that?Me: No.Mr Kennedy: Well, fine, but the sex is really good. That shit was hot.Me: *Awkward silence* She got raped.Mr Kennedy: What?! No!*Interview interruption as Mr. Kennedy goes to check*Mr Kennedy: Well, that's really embarrassing.Me: It's okay, honey.Mr Kennedy: I'm not a rapist.Me: I know that.Mr Kennedy: I mean, I thought it was sexy cause she seemed to like it. You know, like with V'lane.Me: Yeah. So, moving on. What do you think about Barrons.Mr Kennedy: Definitely the King of the Unseelie. I want that down on paper that I already figured it out.Me: Right...Mr Kennedy: Wait, did you add in the rapist thing? I don't want everyone thinking I'm a rapist. That's really embarrassing!Me: Don't worry, babe. I won't add that part in.Mr Kennedy: Good. So yeah, I like Barrons. He's cool.Me: Oh, do you have a crush on him now?Mr Kennedy: Yeah, you wish I did. Then you could watch us make out.Me: Shut up!Mr Kennedy: You're blushing! Write down that you're blushing! You want me to make out with Barrons! You want us to *profanities excluded*.Mr Kennedy is falcon punched and wrestled down to finish the interview.Me: What do you think of V'lane:Mr Kennedy: That guy? He's a douche. I don't like men that try to buy people's affection. I mean, I get that he's supposed to be alien and everything but he's just trying to buy Mac with favours. That's stupid.Me: Who do you think Mac's going to end up with?Mr Kennedy: Barrons. No contest.Me: You'd pick Barrons over V'lane?Mr Kennedy: Is the right answer going to lead to sexy times? Oh shit. You're imagining us together right now, aren't you? You're so freaky.Me: I am NOT!Must not think sexy thoughtsMe: So, how do you think it's all going to end?Mr Kennedy: I think Mac is a fae princess. It's been alluded to. And it would be a flip out if Barrons was her father! That would just be creepy as. It isn't that hard to figure it out. Am I right? You know I'm right.Me: Yes, darling, you're totally, totally right.*The End*My overall review of this series is that I really, really enjoy it. This series is addictive like crack.Most certainly, it isn't a perfect set of novels. In fact, there are many aspects of it that would annoy me in other novels such as the sexualization of violence against Mac and the romanticizing of an overtly aggressive alpha male.But my hormones demanded that I put these criticisms aside because... manflesh! Pretty, pretty manflesh! Yes, I too can be reduced to a quivering mass of lust induced hysteria.The world building is great, the characterization is pretty good, the story line is interesting and involving.All up, I recommend this series if you're looking for an Urban Fantasy to sink your teeth into.