Prince Caspian is the only novel in the Chronicles of Narnia series that disappointed me as a child. Now...before Narnia fans bristle and start leaving hate comments....hear me out. After I read this book I was always hopeful on every first day of school that I would magically be whisked away to a magical other land while waiting for the school bus. And, it never happened. Every year, the school bus showed up and I was whisked away to (prison) the new school term. No Aslan. No Reepicheep. No DLF. Sigh. Utter disappointment.But it certainly did make me understand the disappointment of so many children decades later when they didn't receive an owl with a letter from Hogwort's. I too have felt this pain....But isn't it lovely that there are stories that can make us hope (even as adults) that magic exists? :) I was sorely tempted at 9 to check the back of my clothes closet just in case it was a hidden doorway to Narnia. But nope.....only clothes and the back wall. But it was worth a try, right? And I will admit that I was happy when we removed the old gas logs from our fireplace this year and refurbished the chimney. Not only does that allow Santa a way in....but perhaps the owl can deliver my Hogwort's letter now. Better late than never! :)The reading order of this series has been moved around since I first read these books. I stick with the original publication order. Prince Caspian refers multiple times to The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe...it makes sense to read it in 2nd place. I do understand why many people read The Magician's Nephew first since it does explain where the Wardrobe came from....but it really isn't necessary to read it first. Kids don't need things in order....I understood the story just fine as a child and didn't mind the main characters changing. Kids are not stupid....they are, at times, smarter than adults who get all bogged down with stress, work and adulting that they can't use their imaginations anymore. BUT.....in all fairness, it really doesn't matter if someone reads the books in publication order....or the new reading order. Prince Caspian is a wonderful story if it's 2nd or 4th! I choose to read it second. But the key really is....read it! :) The Chronicles of Narnia is a wonderful series of books! :)Reepicheep is introduced in this book....the most valiant of mice! And I always loved how the Pevensies nicknamed their dwarf friend their DLF (Dear Little Friend). :) A wonderful adventurous story for children (and adults!)I have re-read the Narnia series many, many times. This time my return to Narnia was prompted by The Great American Read. I was very happy when at the conclusion of the PBS show, the series was voted #9 in the list of 100 books that got the American public reading and talking about literature! Yay!Great series! I have loved it for more than 40 years!I read the audio book version of this book. Read by Lynn Redgrave, the audio is almost 5 hours long. Redgrave reads the story masterfully. All in all, a great listening experience!