Wheeeeeere's Johnny?Thanks toDavid McCullough's 2002 Pulitzer Prize winning biography Adams will no longer be overlooked as a lesser president of the United States.Although our currency fails to recognize him, that's never been much of a big deal to me, as my wallet generally fails to recognize any currency... they're so rarely acquainted:John Adams - the president - was complex, ambitious, decisive. John Adams - the book - is complex, ambitious, definitive, and a remarkably readable masterpiece.McCullough doesn't get bogged down in the tedium of mind-numbing details, and instead writes the book in more of a narrative form, starting with Adams family history, but focusing on his career in politics.Before I go on, I have to say I was apprehensive about reading this after seeing the family tree at the beginning. Six John Adams? 4 Abigail Adams? 3 Williams? 3 Thomas's? 3 Susannas? Seriously, whoever wroteThe Very First Big Book of Baby Namesdeserves a prize. Too bad it wasn't around in 1691... (parenthetical aside: I'm a little sensitive to this right now as I recently readOne Hundred Years of Solitude, and everybody had the same name in that book.)Adams' life was eventful. Oh, to be blessed and cursed to live in the times of such change.There's so much that is telling about his life - of his intelligence, integrity, his ambition and conceit.Although a steadfast patriot, he represented the Redcoats charged with murder in the Boston Massacre. (It is also telling that his friend - a Tory - was the prosecutor.) He took the case when no one else would because, "no one in a free country should be denied the right to counsel and a fair trial." (pg 66)The love and devotion he and Abigail had for each other is nothing short of amazing. Truly, they were soul mates - if ever there was such a thing. They spent roughly ten years apart, due to his devotion to the nation. Yet their love never faltered. Their correspondence is remarkable in volume and substance - to think they were writing it all in a time before the internet, when the news they'd get could be months old - if it arrived at all. The transparency seen in their letters is a beautiful (albeit slightly voyeuristic) look into who they were and how they loved.Abigail, in a letter to James Lovell (pg 262) writes of her husband, "Yet it wounds me, sir. When he is wounded, I bleed." They are a couple worth emulating. They endured. They endured.There's a lot made of Adams' time as president, and before as a politician, his hand in The Declaration, his friendship with Jefferson. I won't go into all that, because it's found elsewhere. (I will say, I loved the part where Jefferson was listening to Congress dissect The Declaration of Independence... ouch...) Yes, there was a rift between them that was bridged. Yes, they both died on the same day, July 4th - 50 years after the signing. (Note just the same date, but the same DAY.) Yes, the country took it as a sign...That is remarkable. What I find more remarkable is that Jefferson died $100,000 in debt after railing about debt. And Adams died with $100,000 to his name.Jefferson's acceptance and affection for the French Revolution is appalling, and horrific - especially given the fact that he didn't free his own slaves.Slavery, well... let's not even go there during this review...The book was great. You should read it.Before I leave this conclusionless review though, let me say one more thing that I liked - the parts at the beginning before John was in politics, while he was still a teacher. The things he said solidified my view that things were neither better, nor worse back then... people were people. Human nature does not change.Of course, I can't find it now... but John said he thought students responded better to a little praise and encouragement, rather than a "thwacking." If I find that quote, I'm going to hang it on my wall.