McCullough dazzled with his depiction of Harry Truman and brings that passion now to look at the life of John Adams. As he tackles the more daunting task of bringing this Founding Father and former president to life, through a plethora of research and historical tomes, McCullough illustrates the varied life Adams lived and the complexities of his journey. Presenting Adams as both a man of the people and a politically-minded gentleman, McCullough shows how he shaped the formation of the United States and led it through its early years. Crossing paths with numerous greats, Adams not only took from them but also added some of his own ideas, which benefitted all who took the time to synthesise the discussion. Throughout the biography, McCullough shows three predominant sides to Adams, all of which play an important part in his entire personality: Adams the advocate, the political leader, and the family man, though not necessarily in that order of importance. Written in a clear and fluid manner, McCullough does an amazing job of showing John Adams to be more than a stuffy politician who signed the Declaration of Independence. I have new-found respect and admiration for Adams and took way so much from this one book, as I do whenever I give McCullough the chance to teach.McCullough makes reference throughout that Adams enjoyed playing the role of advocate, especially for the underprivileged. In his early years as a lawyer, Adams handled defending those whom others would not assist, citing that he wanted to grow both in his knowledge of the law as well as strongly believing that everyone deserved a proper defence. McCullough shows that Adams sought to use his way with words (both the written and spoken) to present as strong a case as possible, no matter the defendant. One might extend this advocacy to Adams' role in Philadelphia, where he acted as one of Massachusetts' representatives at the Continental Congress. Adams planted the seed of formal independence from Britain in the minds of many, through speeches and shaped legislation. McCullough comments that Adams sought to advocate as vociferously as possible against the oppressive George III and tried to promote the idea of an independent country whose rights ought to be held in Congress, not some far-off parliament with no representation. McCullough illustrates Adams' passion for independence and while some of the pre-conference happenings receive but a passing mention (Boston Tea Party, for example), the actual constitutional discussions at the Congress receives much attention and exemplifies how Adams shone repeatedly. After declaring their independent interests in 1776, Congress sent Adams abroad to advocate for treaties of support and commerce in France, as well as peace with England when it became clear that George III's armies would be no match for Washington's forces. Congress went so far as to appoint Adams as the first Ambassador to the Court of St. James', an awkward honour in which Adams thrived. While these were by no means simplistic jobs, Adams took them as challenges in which personal growth was assured. McCullough depicts the trials and tribulations throughout these journeys, binding them together with the thread of intense interest to advocate for what Adams felt was right for all.As a political leader, Adams looked past his own interests and pushed ideas of the greater whole while working in Congress and overseas. The oft stated belief that a leader ought to look outside themselves and seek what is best for the entire populace may have been based on Adams' life, as he tried to lead others when little or no precedent existed. Working to create a constitution for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Adams drew on some of the key aspects found within the Declaration of Independence (something he thought might be tasked to him before he passed it along to Jefferson), and added key tenets that he felt were best for all those living there, Adams tried to lead by example and to use his passion for his home state (province in the early years) to better everyone. As mentioned above, Adam sought also to lead in his roles as plenipotentiary minister to both The Netherlands (an interesting story told by McCullough about how Adams scored this post) and England, seeking to forge new alliances and political ground for the newly-born state. Through trials and tribulations abounded, Adams worked to foster needed relationships and climb the ladder of importance, which worked when Congress eventually named him the first vice-president of the United States in 1788. The role still new (and the constitution's depiction of the job description lacking), Adams tried to lead from the dais of the President of the Senate, injecting himself into debate and offering up many opinions. Not used to the role well founded now, the vice-president is better seen and not heard, waiting for the demise of the president to assume any true role. Still, through his pamphlet writing, Adams sought to lead the country through his ideas and political commentary on world events, most especially the French Revolution, drawing parallels to the happenings in 1776.Political leadership took on a new role when Adams narrowly defeated Jefferson (by a mere 3 votes) in the Electoral College in 1797. The presidential campaign of 1796 saw the birth of party politics in America. Tarred and feathered as a monarchist by many of those seeking to derail him, Adams had to shed the moniker in order to move forward and to keep him from the figurative (and perhaps literal) gallows. Forging ahead, Adams used a great deal of his political knowledge to act in as strong a capacity of president as he could. Faced with an openly volatile and confrontational vice-president, Jefferson, the nation faced its most strained administration. While Jefferson tried to set pitfalls for his president, congressional progress appeared glacial and the two parties (the Republicans and the Federalists) sought to stop the other from any crumb of success. McCullough presents much support for the argument that Adams' presidency was ultimately shaped by the post-revolutionary French government, which began goading America into war. Adams built up the needed defences, should war become necessary and proposed two major pieces of legislation to define America for decades thereafter, the Aliens Act, and the Sedition Act. He argued that these pieces of legislation would defend honour and patriotism within America and let foreign potentates know with whom they were dealing. While McCullough posits that peace was Adams' ultimate goal, this is hard to see amongst the military chest bumping. While making the ultimate decision to seek peace, Adams ruffled the feathers of many and may have cast himself in a poor light from thereon in in the eyes of Jefferson and other key Republicans. However, it is his prerogative to do so. This paved the way for the highly vicious campaign of 1800, pitting president against vice-president for the first and only time in history. McCullough presents a highly intriguing story surrounding this campaign and the dirty politicking for which America would eventually become known. McCullough further posits that the outcome of that election hinged greatly on Adams' decision not to go to war with France.Perhaps his greatest role, seen as a major arc throughout the tome, is that of a family man. McCullough uses this role as an overarching one throughout the book. Abigail Adams plays a central role in the story of John Adams' life and there is no section found therein that McCullough does not have some reference to her importance in his life. Adams valued his family above all others and tried to include them wherever he could. Granted, looking at things through the lens of the time, some might query his dedication to family and he and Abigail discuss stillbirths and deaths by letter, but there is no doubt that Adams did all he did to better the lives of his wife and children, going so far as to bring his sons with him to France and The Netherlands on various plenipotentiary missions. His constant letters to Abigail and the detail in which he discussed his adventures, as well as the poetic way in which he waxed wand waned about missing his brood shows how dedicated he was to their inclusion in his life. McCullough does a wonderful job illustrating this through the book's numerous parts and keeps the theme of family predominant throughout the numerous segues. Bringing family along with him on his numerous political appointments, Adams sought to enrich their lives as much as his own, exemplifying his dedication to the family unit. McCullough shows a strongly supportive father and keen head of household whose determination to open new paths for his children as a central tenet of the biography. Even through his trying years as president, Adams always kept his family close at hand, especially Abigail's near death at the hand of yellow fever. He juggled things as best he could, never shutting him family out to run the executive of the country.Of interest, McCullough does not isolate the story to the life of John Adams and family. Numerous, detailed accounts of some of the other Founding Fathers and key actors in the rise of American independence whose interactions with Adams were central tasks undertaken by McCullough throughout. Jefferson, Washington, Franklin, and even Madison all receive great attention from McCullough and offer a teaser to the biographical backgrounds of each. Jefferson surely played a significant role in Adams' life, even if they did eventually distance themselves when wearing their respective political hats. The executive clashes between Washington and Adams would likely be accentuated with an alternate perspective, making Ron Chernow's biography of Washington essential. In the same light, Jon Meacham will surely help show Jefferson's side to the numerous clashes with Adams, both as Founding Fathers and within the executive. Some great storytelling surrounding the difficulties Adams and Franklin faced while working 'together' in France may give the reader a new perspective on both, though surely that is to be expected in such a thoroughly documented tome.One area I had hoped would receive more attention (though the length of the tome justifies its exclusion) is the debates surrounding the independence movement and eventual creation of the Constitution of the United States. Being an institutional reformer, I find it interesting to see where the constitutional seeds germinated and some of the important aspects arose. From his Truman biography, I know that McCullough does present electoral campaigns in a highly detailed fashion. While 1896 was a mere blink of the eye, the re-election campaign of 1800 proved highly entertaining.Kudos do not seem to be enough to encapsulate how much I enjoyed this biography. Choosing a well-known president (by name, but not necessarily by background) appears to be a strength for McCullough as he weaves the detailed background of their lives, their successes and more certainly their demises. I learned more about early America (and the roots about some of the current goings-on) than I have in all my reading to date. Thank you so very much for this and I hope to dive into another McCullough classic soon.