5 stars for the life, and 5 stars for the telling.First, for the life. Could there be a more interesting subject? Raised in modesty, read for the bar, practiced law, got into politics, signed the Declaration, became a diplomat for the new country, became the first vice-president of the US, and its second president, and then died years later while his son was president. What a significant man. And while his accomplishments were intriguing, his character and personality exceeded them. Although crotchety and pugnacious, this rotund man was, for the most part, amiable, funny, and talkative. And he had a great life partner. Abigail was a woman to be reckoned with. And together they forged their way through many of life's trials.John Adams' relationship with fellow compatriot Thomas Jefferson is down right amazing. These guys were like black and white, night and day, oil and water, yet their lives ran on separate, yet parallel tracks, forging a trajectory that set the tempo for American political life. Their personal correspondence was full of spirit, pathos, and ultimately a mutual respect and deep friendship. The end of life for these two (and the connection they share) is nothing short of stupendous. Every American should be acquainted with this story.And, for the writing. I like McCullough. Actually, I like good biographers. It takes a certain humility to devote oneself to showcasing the life of another. A biographer is another man's servant. And I would say McCullough served Adams well. If these two men were to meet one day, I'm sure John would take David by the hand and give him a hearty thanks; and there wouldn't be a dry eye.McCullough's style is magisterial without being high-flown. He writes for the everyday person, but in such a way as to elevate his reader. I so enjoyed McCullough's work, that I looked up his background. What's interesting is, he wasn't even a history major. His training was in English literature. So I think that goes to show why his history has such literary quality to it.After reading this biography, I feel as though I actually know John Adams, the man. Not just his feats, not just his legacy, but his personage, his humanity, even his companionship. Good biographies do that. They are doors into the human past.I couldn't ask for a better book to begin the year with.