If you've seenThe Bourne Identiymovies starring Matt Damon, but you've not read the book by Robert Ludlum upon which the movies are loosely based, you owe it to yourself to read this early 80s spy-thriller.The original premise: a man wakes up in the Mediterranean with amnesia. He's an undercover US operative with the name Jason Bourne, yet he doesn't remember that his mission was to expose and kill the world's deadliest assassin, Carlos the Jackal (a historical figure from the 70s). Because he can't remember who he is, he doesn't check in with his handlers at the CIA, who in turn assume Bourne as turned traitor. Bourne is the only human being who can identify the Jackal. Hence, he is hunted by the CIA and the Jackal.Man, this is some plot, and Ludlum pulls it off splendidly.At more than five hundred paperback pages, it's a heavy-hitter of a novel, but well worth the time. Ludlum takes the reader to exotic locations all over the world, writes about world politics in an entertaining way while at the same time not letting the reader feel like he's learning something in the process. And the twists and turns Ludlum can cram into a story. Wow!But what I like most aboutThe Bourne Identityare the characters. Jason Bourne is strong yet vulnerable, resourceful yet completely believable. He gets hurt and experiences pain when he has to fight. He suffers through incredible emotional dilemmas and mental instability. I found myself cheering for him, not just wondering how it would all turn out, but actually cheering him on and feeling what he was feeling.I don't want to reveal more of the plot, but please, please,please, if you've only seen the movie and haven't read the book, fix that as soon as you can.Oh, I'll leave you with this last bit of info, and I hope it doesn't cause some of you to jump the gun and read the ending of the story. I first read this book back in junior high or high school, back in the early 80s, and I still remember the last narrative paragraph and two lines of dialogue at the end. All I'll say is this: as a young teen boy, when I read those lines, I cried.'Nuff said aboutThe Bourne Identiy.My next review will be a bit of change of pace from horror, fantasy, and spy-thrillers. But it does involve some playing with time, and it has one of the strongest and most sympathetic female characters I've read in a long time.Stay tuned, and please, leave your thoughts and comments to add to the discussions!