Humid days start off as cool mornings of mist. Depending on the lake's movement, fast or slow, one knows how the day will feel on the skin. And the sky above the ocean always speaks of rain or sun. These are only a few things I like about life on the Coast.So imagine thishouse of sand and fog, a bungalow with a widow walk that looks out to the ocean; imagine a nice short jog to the beach, mornings and evenings covered in fog that protects and suffocates. Beach life is simple, yet chic. Casual, but not without its touch of elegance.Yet the lives at this beach house are anything but simple; everything is complicated and tangled. Kathy, a recovering addict and cleaning woman by trade, inherits a bungalow that receives notices about business tax evasion. She never opens the mail, even when the county sends several envelopes announcing an auction sale of her house. The County has the wrong house, but no one knows this. Not even the former political refugee and immigrant, Behrani, a Persian exile who has bought the house for his family. While in America, Behrani, a former wealthy Colonel, works two jobs as a roadside garbage man and at a convenience store and yet he tries to maintain his standard of living so that his daughter marries into privilege. When he sees the house for sale, he buys it, quits his jobs, and tries to settle on a path of real estate development.I look once more at the woodland, at the fashion in which the sunlight drops through the branches, and I am thinking of our summer home in the mountains near the Caspian Sea, of how the light was the same in those trees along the winding earth road to our bungalow, and for a moment, I feel a sense of sarnehvesht, of destiny, and as soon as I do, I stand erect and look back at the property with as cool an eye as I am able, for I do not wish my judgment to be weakened at the point of sale.If only life was that simple. I'm not sure how Dubus writes another book that surpasses the psychological and physical layers of this one, layers that tugged and pulled at me as I read, layers that no movie can reveal as effortlessly as the book did. Physicality is woven in such style that keeps the reader present, while descriptive wording is pieced into dialogue and paced perfectly. I watched the movie after I read the book and as usual, the movie does the book no justice; in fact, the movie leaves out pertinent information towards the end, while it also seeks to paint a better portrait of Kathy, the former homeowner. However, Dubus does nothing of the sort in the book. His characters are all flawed and deeply disturbed; they all desire more, they all want to retrieve that which was taken from them and by doing so, they make reckless choices. Alas, greed and desire are competing interests in a story that can only end badly.