And... it's over.This series has come a long, long way from where it started and has managed to shatter boundaries and exceed expectations where, in my opinion, other series likeDivergentandBlood Red Roadhave failed. It started out like almost every other piece of dystopian fiction released in 2011. Some random political facts thrown about, set in a future United States that was torn apart by war, oppressive government in power and, of course, a nice little side order of romance that could *almost* be described as instalove. I confess that the first installment didn't impress me and it took some seriously positive reviews of the second book to make me try it. But I am so glad that I did.This final book is brimming with action and suspense. The pacing doesn't slow down for a second and it suits the high-stakes plot. The previous book left us with some shocking information about Day that will surely be at the forefront of most readers' minds when picking up this conclusion - it doesn't disappoint. It's true that there were only a limited number of ways this could end but with Lu it doesn't seem to matter because she has your mind constantly running through the options and wondering where she'll take you next. The sense of constant uncertainty instilled in my brain throughout this book was terrifying and intoxicating. It's been a while since I read a book so completely unputdownable.I also really like the way Lu has developed her characters. For me, June and Day have come a long way and matured so much since book one. This kind of natural growth is realistic, important and perhaps one of the main reasons I enjoy reading young adult so much - watching the characters flourish, become wiser and deal with all the different pressures of life in this difficult period of growing up (doubly so when your country relies on you). Looking back, I have a certain respect for the author in the way she portrayed their initial meeting and the start of their relationship. What seemed like lazy writing, in hindsight, actually seems like Lu deliberately showed the difference in maturity between the relationships of hormonal teens and young adults who've experienced a bit of life. Day and June were far more likeable as a couple in this book than I've ever noticed before.The last two or three chapters of this book literally had me on the edge of my seat. I couldn't look away. It takes a skilled writer to have you questioning what will happen right up until the last page. And it takes an even more skilled writer to bring tears to my eyes. Sometimes I say books make me cry when I really mean they just get a sniffle and an "awww" out of me... because I'm a cold-hearted person. But this book made my eyes fill up at the end. An ending that I thought was perfectly ambiguous - full of both sadness and hope. Why? Well, you'll just have to read the book to find out.