I went into 'We Were Liars' blind, for the most part. It had been sitting on my Audible shelf for so long that I had long-since forgotten what it was supposed to be about. Sometimes, I get it in my head that a book is going to be about something, when it absolutely has nothing to do with it. God only knows where I get these ideas, but I do. As a result, I often find myself being surprised by the content of the stories I read without re-reading the blurbs. This was one of those times. Note to other readers: This book has nothing to do with WWII. Where do I even get these ideas?Instead, 'We Were Liars' tells the story of four young teens. They spend the summer together on Beechwood Island, a private island owned by the Sinclair family. Needless to say, the Sinclair family is filthy rich.The story is centered on Cadence, the oldest granddaughter of Mr. Sinclair. She is her grandfather's favorite. Along with her cousins, she has spent many a summer on her grandfather's island, getting into trouble and taking her privilege for granted.One summer, her Aunt's boyfriend brings along his nephew, Gat. He has lost his own father and his uncle has taken Gat under his wing, so to speak. Despite the obvious differences in race and financial standing, Gat becomes good friends with Cadence and her cousins. Together, they come to be known as "The Four Liars".Cadence and Gat soon become inseparable. He makes her think about life and the wrongs of the world. He brings depth to her pampered existence, prompting thought on topics such as race and social standing. It was young love. It was beautiful.Then, Cadence suffers a terrible accident. She nearly dies, but doctors are able to save her. The accident has left her forever changed though. It has also taken it's toll on her relationships. Worst of all, Gat seems to have abandoned her in her time of need.After a prolonged absence, Cadence returns to the island once again. It is the first of many steps that she will take toward recovery. However, the truth that has alluded her will eventually resurface.I won't say too much because I don't want to spoil this book for anyone. Unlike others, I have to say that I did not predict the big twist at the end. I was completely blindsided. I never saw it coming.Overall, this was a great read for me. At times, it could get a little slow. However, I found myself really enjoying the story of Cadence and the "beautiful Sinclair family". 'We Were Liars' serves as a cautionary tale, warning readers of the consequences of greed, hypocrisy and racism, among others. Things aren't always as "perfect" as they seem when looking in from the outside. This book makes that crystal clear.Check out more of my reviews atwww.bookaddicthaven.com