John Fowles started writing the Magus in the mid-1950s, and struggled with it off and on for the next twelve years. After his first novel, The Collector, became a best-seller, he finally finished the book and published it in 1966. But then, eleven years later, he issued a revised edition, reworking a number of critical scenes. All books reflect the times in which they were written, and this one is no exception. The early scenes are very much a meditation on breaking away from 1950s conformity and the stultifying regime of the post-war British upper class. The long middle passage, set on a mysterious island in Greece, tackles those big 1960s questions- personal identity, sexual freedom, and higher consciousness. And the end of the book, which peaks with a freakout frenzy and ends on a distinctly melancholy and uncertain note- it's not a stretch to see that as a mirror of the burned out decade that was the 1970s.When classifying Fowles, a lot of critics place him on the line between modernism and post-modernism. Certainly there is ample evidence of both schools of writing in The Magus. Much of the book is a bildungsroman with shades of early 20th century novels (like DH Lawrence's Sons and Lovers, and Joyce's Portrait of the Artist- both featuring smart but emotionally unstable young men, groping towards maturity.) But as the mysterious events on the island gear up, and the narrator finds himself falling head-over-heels through a series of bizarre scenes of sex and violence and lies and half-truths, The Magus comes to resemble a later generation of novels.The closest parallel might be Eco's Foucault's Pendulum. Both books are paced as erudite literary mysteries with frequent references to other authors- Shakespeare, Dickens, etc. Both have settings that span Europe- Fowles moves the action from London to Greece to France, with stops in Norway, Rome, and Germany. And like Eco, Fowles has a playful way of letting the reader in on the fun- allowing the narrator to express disbelief about the events he's witnessing, just as we, the readers, might feel disbelief at times about the plot of the book:'Is this how they teach you at Oxford now? One reads the last chapters first?" And I had to smile and look down. If his answer had not quenched my curiosity at all it had at least jumped another pretense, and moved us on. In some obscure way, one I was to become very familiar with, it flattered me: I was too intelligent not to be already grasping the rules of the game we played. It was no good my knowing that old men have conned young ones like that ever since time began. I still fell for it, and one still falls for the oldest literary devices in the right hands and contexts.Or'This experience. It's like being halfway through a book. I can't just throw it in the dustbin.'Where The Magus fails, it fails because Fowles allows the narrator to descend into a kind of post-college mawkishness, where everything isso seriousand life is never a joke. Even though the situation, as presented, is often cosmically funny, the narrator never seems to joke or smile about it- and in that he seems to miss some of the point. But that's a small complaint and one that doesn't really mar this compulsively readable novel.PS: if you liked TV's Lost, you'll doubly enjoy this book. Much of the plot of that show seems to be ripped from Fowles- including the mysterious island setting and the idea that the whole place might be a grand psychology experiment or be possessed of a kind of black magic. It also features a Jacob-like master-manipulator, several characters that shed identities like snake-skin, and even a Hatch! There's more, but I'll let you discover it for yourself.