Hey! I made a set of 10 QUEEN OF SHADOWS DIY tattoos you can download for free here:http://www.themidnightgarden.net/2015...There is a giveaway for 2 QOS tote bags + books as well.Kim and I will also be doing a joint review discussion on the blog soon. I'm refraining from responding to further comments on this review space for the time being while I collect my thoughts, but I thank you guys so much for the discussion and passion for these books, and look forward to continuing later. See you back here in a bit, I'll post the link when it's up!Initial reaction:I stayed up all night reading this, and these are the only coherent things I can say at this point:1. The women in this series are PHENOMENAL. Holy hell, I swear fealty to them until the end of my days.2. The new characters are fantastic! There is such complexity and poignancy in each of their stories, and I loved every single one of them, as well as what Aelin's interactions with them showed about her character.3. More descriptions of sleeping under a wyvern's wing, please. &lt;34. I have issues with the way a couple of things are handled--most strongly and specifically, how poor Chaol is almost unrecognizable for most of this book. Even though I can accept misunderstandings, mistakes, differences of opinion, cross-purposes, and so on, it makes me so sad that his story arc seemed to be so diminished and dishonored.5. But the thing I didn't think I could be talked into, I'm actually totally on board with. I get why people might be upset by(view spoiler)[Rowan and Aelin getting together, and maybe if there hadn't been so much previous back and forth with Dorian and Chaol, and if Chaol hadn't pretty much disavowed Aelin through most of this book, the new relationship would've been more palatable(hide spoiler)], but I'm pretty happy with the way the way the big change develops and is described in and of itself.6. This book also made me cry. Like gasping sobs in the middle of the night that I had to stifle so I wouldn't wake my husband. I teared up at several points, but the graveyard scene was the one where I just lost it.(view spoiler)[Sam still hurts my heart, so I was unbearably moved that his presence is so deeply felt in this book. I didn't expect it.(hide spoiler)]*bawls all over again*7. Honestly,(view spoiler)[Dorian and Chaol should just get a room together.(hide spoiler)]Also, the badass action scenes! Aelin! Her suit and weapons! The magic! MANON. And bathtub scenes, heeeey. More at some point when I'm not half-dead with lack of sleep.I went into this with a certain amount of dread, but much to my surprise, this is the book that has the happiest ending out of all of them. This just means more torture is in store in future books, obviously, but for now...bliss.** PLEASE.Use spoiler tags in the commentsbelow if you want to talk about anything that could even remotely spoil the reading experience for someone else. Thank you!