This is a book about what happens when someone has too much time and money on his hands. Shit gets real, yo.Really it's about a 25-year-old British guy, Nicholas Urfe, who is somewhat of a douche, but then aren't most 25-year-oldboysmen douches? They're all rough around the edges and whatnot and it's all about poon and stuff. Nicholas is pretty much that guy. He strikes up a relationship with an Australian chick, Alison, and things are pretty okay for a while until they're not anymore, and Nicholas does what any 25-year-old would do in the same situation - he takes a job teaching English at a school in Greece. (Or, as in an episode ofFriends, one might pretend to have to move to Yemen. Same thing.)When Nicholas gets to Greece, he meets an old wealthy guy, Maurice Conchis. This guy owns a realModiglianipainting and aRodinsculpture, so you know he's got mad skrillaz. Nicholas is pretty impressed, as I would be as well.They get to be friendly, but then things get strange. Like a Roman Polanski/Stanley Kubrick-movie kind of strange. I was all for it because Fowles seems to have this way of making me become really invested in his writing, no matter how fucked up the story becomes. He had me wrapped around his little finger withThe Collector, but even that story seems totally normal and not at all a little wonky in comparison to this one. This one is filled with Shakespeare references, allusions to Greek mythology, and some other stuff I probably don't even understand. It's modern meets classical and it's oh so yummy. If you, y'know, are into that sort of stuff. Maybe to like this one has to be just the right amount of nerd?Regardless, this was delicious. I probably don't love it as much asThe Collector, but that was my first Fowles and I will never forget that experience. I probably wouldn't have been as blown away by that one if I read it for the first time now. But it's all about timing. I read this one at the right time as well. I started it on the plane back from Europe where I had just spent a week in Corsica, probably the closest thing one will find to a Greek island in Europe, so I already had the right mindset for the setting. I read about 300 pages on that flight home and didn't sleep a wink (sleep is for the weak!) and fell in love with Fowles all over again.Seriously, if you read this, donotexpect it to be a normal story. It's cuckoo for Cocoa Puffs.