"Do you think monsters are born or made?"I just... I just... I can't... I just don't know what to say. Celaena is coming for everything they said she couldn't have.Game of ThronesmeetsBatman. That's what theThrone of Glassseries is... and yes it's as epic as that sounds. Sarah J. does it again. Another stunning build of a book. This review is going to be so hard to write. I want to gush. I want to scream. I want to rage about this book, but can't because *sigh* spoilers. As much as I want to spoil this for you I wont. I will still write my feelings about it and highlight a few moments I loved, but I just wanted to give warning this review WONT have spoilers in it... I will say that if you haven't taken the time to read this series you're a fool and I have no idea what you're doing with your life, besides living it wrong!Queen of Shadowspicks up right whereHeir of Fireleft off; pulling us behind a car by our heartstrings. There are a lot of characters introduced and finally produced in this book that I unfortunately wont be able to touch base on in this review. Just understand that the smallest player can end up playing the biggest part. Anyways, I'll just jump right into our main players. First off lets talk about Dorian. God, I love him in this book (If you've read QOS you probably read that sentence and thought I was insane but I don't care). I absolutely loved reading from his point of view. The complete change from light to dark had me drawn in. He became such a stellar character in this novel. He is a true wild card at this point in time. Then there's Choal. I know people love Choal. That in the previous books everyone has been "team Choal this" "team Choal that", however if you know or have read any of my review for this series then you know I have not been team Choal---or even team Dorian. Choal does give us a ton of character development and growth in this book, and I love his character but he's still not one of my favorites in this series. Then we have a "newer" player,   Aedion... Love him. His sass, his loyalty, his personality shine so bright in this book. I just couldn't get enough of him. And the growing bromance between him and Rowan had me dying. This leads me too the two people I've been dying ta get ta....Yes, Rowan and Celaena. I know that Celaena officially goes by Aelin in this book, but I'm going to warn you now that I will probably always call her Celaena or "C". These two... OMG. THESE TWO KILL ME!!!!!!I haven't shipped a ship this hard in the longest and it has me all sorts of giddy.Again if you've read my review in the past then you know whose team I've always been on... Team Rowan. From the moment this man was introduced it was signed, sealed, delivered.I LOVE HIM!!!! Good gods I love him.Though we got a good deal of him inHOFit isn't even half of what we get out of him in this book. We get to see into his brain. We get to see how he is feeling, he's stages of thinking, and his feeling towards Celaena in a way we haven't been able to in the past. It has be swooning all over the place. Everything he does and says will win you over. He was already on myfavorite fictional guyslist but lets just say after reading this he has defeintely moved up on the list. I can't wait to see where their bond takes them.It's refreshing to have a character in this series that generally understands her struggles and the weight that has been put on her shoulders. Lastly we have Celaena.I have said it on many many occasions that Celaena is my all time favorite female character.Queen of Shadowsjust further justified this for me.She is one cunning, whip smart, silver tongued, bad-ass bitch.QOSby far gives the best description I've ever heard of her..."A storm given flesh."That sentence is so spot on it isn't even real. InQOSya girl is taking no prisoners. No seriously, If Celaena was in aGOThouse she would be a freaking Lannister... and yall know why... Because a Sardothien always pays her debts.I can't even count how many times I screamed "OH MY GOD" over something she did. At one point in time this was my goodreads status update..."Seriously????!!? Did C just drop the mic??? UH YEAH SHE DID!! Seriouslyjust screamed "oooooooooooh damn" and scared the crap out of my dog.She just such a badass"... Everything she does is so calculated that when you finally see all the pieces come together you'll be exploding.Your brain will have to take several cold showers to get over the mind rape she will do to you.If there was something you wanted from C that you didn't get in the past you'll get it in this one. She gives you a side of her we haven't seen. This raw real emotion that takes her character to a whole new level. Celaena's character in this novel had me bowing down to the real Queen that is Sarah J Maas. *Insert slow clap*. Bravo! Thank you for making a character that is the epitome of strong leading female. Yes Celanea might go a little stray cray here and there, but God... She might want a man but she doesn't need one. She can do bad all by herself. Sarah continued to show that you can be tough but still love the things you want. You can wield a sword but still love dresses. That you can be all these strong willed tough as nails things, but still love deep. There's no other word to describe Celanea's character besides amazing. As for the characters I couldn't mention, they truly hold their own in this book. One surprise after another. There is one certain witch in particular that I can't wait to see in the next book.I know I talked a lot about the characters and not so much about the plot. Again that is only because we are now four books deep people.QOSis the perfect balance of action packed scenes, romance, fighting, plotting, and build up. This is basically me the whole time... Page 1-170 I thank Maas for giving me everything back. Page 181 I die. Page 295 I freak the f out! Page 319 I cry my eyes out. Paged 320 I curl up in a ball and die again. 370 I realize that if my heart wasn't stolen by C before it's was officially taken. Page 400-656 I don't breathe and can't feel my body. I cry. I swoon. I die again and didn't even know that was physically possible. Swoon some more. Then do my final freak out. This is all without even mentioning the crazy plot twists that happen. They sneak up on you and tear your heart and eyes both out. Sometimes at the same time. And that ending, though a lot of lose ends are taken care of it still has me so conflicted. I just don't know where this story is headed. My heart is telling me it going to go one place while my head tells me to expect another.The whole ending plays out just like a movie. So vivid you can see and feel the whole thing. Just phenomenal.Queen of Shadowswas well worth the wait and hanging around till the next book comes out might just do me in. Don't even get me start on how we still get at least two more books! Sarah J. Maas continues to surprise me with a series I never even thought I would like, but has turned out to be one of my favorites.All in allQueen of Shadowsis about finding your place in the world. Consuming what you must and then fighting for what you love. That you yourself can be your best friend or your worst enemy. That it isn't about how heavy the weight is but about how long you hold it. That you get to choose your future. That your past might have built you but that it doesn't have to define you. That one person can truly rattle the stars.originally read September 2015.Re-read August 2016READ THIS REVIEW AND OTHERS OVER ON OUR BLOG:SOUTHERN BRED SOUTHERN READSOUTHERN BRED SOUTHERN READSOUTHERN BRED SOUTHERN READ