I loved this book. The books in this series just seem to get bigger and better. This book is 600 + pages but every page is good and well done. My only complaint is that I would have like more details about the fights more blow for blow account not that "they were already carrion, when she drew her blades". True this would probably take the page count well into the 1000s but I would not mind if it was a well written as the rest of the book. I have always been a fan of Sarah J Maas' "chunking" writing style, where she make some chapters longer as events dictate in some cases half a page for a side event constitutes a chapter.The last book Celaena's true name and heritage was revealed in this book to reflect this she is referred to as Aelin rather than Celaena, the book also introduced a new character and Manon of the Iron Teeth witches. She and her coven are continued to be developed in this book. For this development and even by the end of the book we are not sure which way she will turn. Many of the characters of the novellas or the collected counterpart Assassin's Blade paperback. The fallout from there is death with in the first half of this book. The body count is higher in this book but there are not as many fights described. What this book does display is Celaena/Aelin's tactical and planning precision yes she can be a hellcat and a hot head, but as wild as she get she is a disciplined and dangerous fighter always thinking a couple of moves ahead. There is a great cat and mouse game between Aelin and her former master.Aelin returns to Adarlan she finds it an even more brutal place than before. Along with her own vengeance, she must deal with the fallout from the months she has been missing, one disadvantage is all the training she did to hone her powers in the last book, is lost as magic does not work in Adarlan. However her physical training is still useful, and has made her even more formidable. She has embraced her heritage of the Queen (I have to say I love the title of the "Fire breathing bitch Queen"), now she must assemble her court. This is big book with big time ramifications and revelations. All in all great.