In my part of the world, the gods live everywhere. Every automobile you get into has an image of an elephant headed god or a crucified christ &amp; if the owner is a very fervent believer you will have incense burning inside the vehicle. Such beliefs according to them keeps mishaps at bay. Calendars &amp; walls are adorned with such images and even movies begin with chants evoking the celestial ones.Growing up in such a society my mind kept wavering between comfort &amp; confusion on what it all could mean. The confusion to me started increasing when I took the matter of my personal relgious belief out &amp; started looking at world religions as a whole and as to what they symbolize. This little book is a flashlight that helped me walk a good mile down this confusing road of myth,lies,half baked ideas and somewhere around the corner...realization ! The real power of this book was not in being just a flashlight but in telling me where other larger torches &amp; lanterns rest.There is no contention in my mind to the degree of erudition that Joseph Campbell would have been a master of. He speaks from a wide variety of sources to bring before the reader a very valid point : There is a common thread of Mythology at play across the world. I have at times even with my limited reading felt that all the tales ever told are part of one grand tale. Campbell explains in detail how across Civilizations, Continents,Time,Wars,Monarchies &amp; Papacies, Famines,Floods &amp; Devastation a few central themes shine through in the theatre of World Mythology. The quest of the hero,the divine (virgin) mother figure, the death-resurrection cycle, heights of love &amp; pits of damnation : themes such as these have donned different coats of paint all throughout history to sing ballads of the humans for all to hear and revel in.As a reader, I found the structure of this book to be a very calming one. The reason is pretty straight forward for the interviewer and the scholar are very much at ease with one another and that amicable feel flowed into me as well. Campbell has had experiences travelling widely &amp; also of tireless reading and these transform into his words. You only need to look at a few passages to know what a first rate grasp he has on world mythology, philosophy, psychology, history among other topics. There is a brief mention of what a student in Campbell's class once said that the reading assignments alone that he gave would make a student stagger under its sheer volume. Hinduism, Biblical Mythology &amp; Buddhism are the key religions which at a first glance seem to have influenced this man the most, for time &amp; again he returns to them and shows us little nuggets which speak more than any book ever could.I knew I would love this book after I read the first few pages of it. It's the kind of book to be re-read every once in a while. After that re-reading I might be tempted to dig up the myths that Campbell talks about and devour them all....and then keep repeating it ever so often with different myths &amp; different tales. For as Campbell says :Myths are clues to the spiritual potentialities of human life.