Following a magical accident, City Watch Commander Samuel Vimes finds himself in the Ankh Morpork of his youth. The good news is that the criminal he was chasing has also joined him in the past, so no more cop murders in the present time. The bad news is, that said criminal has more than enough charisma to join and thrive in the Day Watch of the time: a cruel organization way above the law.To keep up with the man, Sam Vimes will infiltrate the Night Watch, adopting the identity of his childhood hero, John Keel. Luckily, it's not like our favorite City Watch commander is without help. The History Monks are working round the clock (hah!) to ensure his safe return to the present. So in the meantime, Vimes might as well take up his role in the upcoming civil war that has been brewing in the streets for some time.For fans and connoisseurs of the Ankh Morpork City Watch series, this book is such a treat. We get to see Sam Vimes turn into his own chidlhood hero, as he skillfully navigates the tactical and political pitfalls of a lawless city on the brink of war. It was positively exhillariating to see our commander protect his turf and slowly but surely expand it. And all it (apparently) took, was to follow a few common sense rules.But here's some advice, boy. Don't put your trust in revolutions. They always come around again. That's why they're called revolutions.Truth! Freedom! Justice! And a hard-boiled egg!My favorite parts however, were old-Vimes' mentoring moments with 6-year-old Nobby, and the young Vimesy. The first one, as a handy spy, and the second one (primarily) out of dire necessity. After all, it wouldn't do to have his past self die now, if old-Vimes wanted to have a future to return to.Nobby's brow creased in genuine puzzlement. 'What's pulling wobblers mean?' he said.Vimes gave him a similar look. Street parly had changed a lot in thirty years.'That's stealing trifles... small items. Isn't it?''Nah, nah, mister. That's "tottering nevils",' said Nobby relaxing. 'But you ain't doing badly, for someone who's new. 'Vimes held up Nobby. 'See this?' he said.'Is it a monkey?' said the woman.'Har, har, very funny,' moaned Nobby, as Vimes lowered him again.'Just one more thing, Nobby...''Yes, sarge?' said Nobby, still spooning.'Give me back my notebook, my handkerchief and the four pennies you whizzed from my pockets, will you?'Nobby opened his mouth to protest, dribbling slumgullet, but closed it when he saw the glint in Vimes' eye. Sliently, he produced the items from various horrible pockets.Score: 4/5 starsFour well-deserved stars for a poignant, funny, bitter-sweet and nostalgic as heck origin story on Sam Vimes, Havelock Vetinari, as well as several important members of the (future) City/Night Watch.... and did I mention there's quite a bit on young Vetinari, the apprentice assasin? Because there is, and it's brilliant! Just sayin'.==============Other books featuring the Night Watch:Review of the 1st book:Guards! Guards!Review of the 2nd book:Men at ArmsReview of the 3rd book:Feet of ClayReview of the 4th book:JingoReview of the 5th book:The Fifth ElephantReview of the 7th book:Thud!Review of the 8th book:Snuff