When Humbert Humbert, ( his parents had little imagination) was thirteen he fell in love with Annabel, a girl of the same age. Living in a posh hotel on the French Riviera owned by his widowed father, during the 1920's, idyllic but life is not. After some smooching not enough for the boy, she moves away with her family and soon expires on a Greek isle, trouble is Humbert never forgets or recovers from this. The clock ticks forward yet still remembering the dreams, nightmares in fact, continue, every female is compared to his long lost love, and they fall by the wayside...Attending universities receiving good grades, meeting many attractive women and making love to quite a few who like the very handsome man, but there is an emptiness deep inside him, he cannot love anyone but himself and even that is not always a firm notion, shrinks don't help. Finally marrying a seemingly nice young woman ( but people hide their faults) a Polish doctor's daughter, Valeria, Humbert does not have strong feeling for and she lacks the same thing, it has all the making of a disaster, and is...Monsieur Humbert becomes a scholarly writer with a bad heart, his first volume about French Literature is widely praised. The marriage dissolves, no surprise there and Humbert who has a small independent income, which he needs with his mental problems, is in and out of psychiatric asylums his whole life. World War Two begins the writer flees to America, subsequently goes on an Arctic research expedition in Canada that is not really explained to the scientists, rumors state it has something to do with national security. The frozen Humbert thaws out in a tiny town in New England, in the summer, Ramsdale a typical village where nothing ever happens, with polite but rather remote citizens keeping to themselves they're wary of strangers, renting a room from a widow Charlotte Haze. The house old and tired nothing special, except for the 12 year- old nymphet Lolita, the daughter of Mrs.Haze. The old urges... his damaged heart flutters, the pedophile must have her but how, the mother is watching the child... has a bad relation with this Mrs.Haze, but there must be a way to change the situation... Later Charlotte says she loves Humbert in an unexpected letter, he marries her to be close to her daughter, the delighted stepfather now has access...A very disturbing novel creepy is the word to describe it, not for everyone, but this has become a masterpiece in literature, not quite respectable , still it cannot be ignored...