Back when it was published in 1955, the story ofLolitaconvulsed its readers and revealed a completely new portray of a paedophile's life. The character of Humbert Humbert has become a well-known and much-interpreted part of 20th century literature, and ever since its publication, Nabokov's novel has been banned for certain periods of time in France, England, Argentina, New Zealand and South Africa due to its difficult contents. Focusing on the life of highly intelligent and incalculable Humbert Humbert and his delusional sexual fascination with Dolores "Lolita" Haze, aged 12 at the beginning of this novel, Nabokov will take you on a journey you will not forget about.Even in spite of all the controversy surrounding its contents,Lolitahas turned into one of the most influencial books from the last century, often referred to as a book everyone has to read once in their lifetime. Apparently, according to various internet sources, Nabokov was so disgusted by the character of Humbert himself that he almost burned the manuscript - which is understandable, as the nature of our protagonist's thoughts and deeds are difficult to understand and sometimes even painful to think about.First, let's take a look at Jeremy Irons as Humbert Humbert from the 1997 movie adaption:This is the man I have imagined Humbert to look like throughout the entire course of the novel. Because even though Humbert is a paedophile on the inside,he appears to be a friendly, charming and interesting man on the outside. Humbert is a man whose lies people easily fall for, whose intricate net of self-invented stories it is difficult to elude without having the ability to look inside his head, as Vladimir Nabokov allowed us to. As disgusting and repulsive as Humbert's deeds were, they were always confided inside his soul. He is a man whovisits prostitutes and imagines them to be 13 or 14 years old in order to gain sexual pleasure from his visit, a man who tricks people into not realizing the real nature of his character, a man who marries Charlotte Haze only in order to be close to her daughter Lolita who he feels sexually attracted to.Humbert is a man who tricks even himself into thinking that no matter how severe the crime he committed, its performance has been inevitable as a result of his personality.Humbert pleads with the reader to understand his feelings of guilt and remorse, yet he never truly considers the possibility of accepting responsibility for the sickness of his behaviour. Nabokov masterfully explores the themes embedded in this novel, using word plays, elements of humor and beautiful descriptions to pull the reader into the story. Nabokov's prose is likely going to surprise you with its beauty, juxtaposing the ugliness of Humbert's character. Moreover, the author loves to play with language, sometimes even makes up new words; you will frequently see the narrator drifting off into the usage of French vocabulary. My French was good enough to understand the meaning of those parts, yet I can imagine how distracting and confusing they might be for a reader without knowledge of the French language.Ultimately, Humbert doesn't only seduce Lolita, he also seduces the reader with his words and thoughts. And yet, can the book really be described as a story about a guilty perpetrator and an innocent victim? In 1958, American writer Dorothy Parker wrote a review for this book, calling Lolita "a dreadful little creature, selfish, hard, vulgar, and foul-tempered" - and nobody could judge her for this characterization. Even now, after having finished the book and thought about it for more than a month, I don't know what to make of Lolita's character. I can only encourage everyone to read this novel and create an own image of Lolita, a girl who perhaps couldn't even tell you who she is herself.Interestingly, Nabokov wrote the novel while onbutterfly-collection tripsin the western United States, mirroring the cross-country journey of Lolita and Humbert which took place in the novel. Nabokov succeeded in painting an intriguing and stunning picture of the American 40's and early 50's, turning his novel not only into the journey through a human being's mind, but also into an epic trip across the United States. It should also be noted that Nabokov himself disagreed with all the different editions featuring a young girl on the cover as those images cause the general idea ofLolitabeing an erotica novel. Maybe I should be glad about owning a simple hardcover edition with a purely plain-coloured binding.The book made me extremely uncomfortable during parts of the story, butit has been written to do so. I don't believe any reader could be comfortable during the lecture of this novel, and thus I will recommend it only to people who are completely convinced of reading about the troubled and controversial life of Humbert Humbert. But if you can appreciate complex and intelligent stories, layered writing and beautiful prose, you should give it a chance to find out for yourself what this novel is actually about.