Preface: Though I enjoyed this book as a whole, the focus this evening will be onHowl. Why this one alone? Simply put, I am writing these jumbled thoughts as a dedication to a friend. Rather, I am dedicating this to a cluster of friends, each of whom have chosen, in one form or another, to leave this earthly plain and shatter vehemently into oblivion. Suffice it to say that this series of words and interpretations will be highly personal, and therefore guided by inflated emotions which have forcefully skewed my view in favor of this poem. It was just too relevant, too well-timed, and exactly what I needed to hear at precisely the moment I was "hearing" it. Then again, perhaps that means that, in my raw state, I actually DID hear it and can give an experience-based, honest opinion founded in emotional relevance (I mean, it's poetry, right?). That is for you to decide, I suppose. Keep in mind, I know this is ham-handed. I find expressing myself to those that I love to generally be difficult, so (since I cannot bring myself to tell them how I feel) I will just spew it here to a bunch of (mostly) strangers. My apologies...it just had to be done. Also, it highlights the reason that I am so keen on this poem (and this collection, which is excellent as a whole).As I sat at my desk on Monday evening engaging myself withHowland the internet in varying doses, I received a call from an old friend. This call informed me that our yearly pattern had not ceased its locomotion: another friend had taken his life; another spastic, trouble-making, genuine, crass, rambunctious, unique, ever-smiling, glorious, damaged person had rippled the rivers with what we didn't know about his insides. Like those before him, the type of person that no one forgets, even after a very brief encounter. Those who demanded too much of you; their presence called for your eyes, their voice your ears, and their memory a sturdy bedroll in your cranium. People who will be missed by many, and, oddly enough, exactly the sort of people with the type of pain, obstacles, self-doubts, self-deprecating rants, and self-destructive tendencies thatHowladdresses. The wonderful and wounded. Or rather, the wonderfully wounded. You are all familiar with the intro, but it begs repeating for the sake of this dedication:I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed bymadness, starving hysterical naked,dragging themselves through the negro streets at dawnlooking for an angry fix,angelheaded hipsters burning for the ancient heavenlyconnection to the starry dynamo in the machin-ery of night,who poverty and tatters and hollow-eyed and high satup smoking in the supernatural darkness ofcold-water flats floating across the tops of citiescontemplating jazz,who bared their brains to Heaven under the El andsaw Mohammedan angels staggering on tene-ment roofs illuminated,who passed through universities with radiant cool eyeshallucinating Arkansas and Blake-light tragedyamong the scholars of war,who were expelled from the academies for crazy &amp;publishing obscene odes on the windows of theskull,who cowered in unshaven rooms in underwear, burn-ing their money in wastebaskets and listeningto the Terror through the wall,who got busted in their pubic beards returning throughLaredo with a belt of marijuana for New York,who ate fire in paint hotels or drank turpentine inParadise Alley, death, or purgatoried theirtorsos night after nightwith dreams, with drugs, with waking nightmares, al-cohol and cock and endless balls,incomparable blind; streets of shuddering cloud andlightning in the mind leaping toward poles ofCanada &amp; Paterson, illuminating all the mo-tionless world of Time between,Peyote solidities of halls, backyard green tree cemeterydawns, wine drunkenness over the rooftops,storefront boroughs of teahead joyride neonblinking traffic light, sun and moon and treevibrations in the roaring winter dusks of Brooklyn...Perhaps part of what made people feel so invested in and comforted by the beat movement wasn't just the hip facade, the "cool kid," rebel-without-a-cause nonsense, or even the fact that the stream-of-consciousness writing style and (often) lurid subject matter was just "weird" and "fresh." I think a part of it was also the fact that it was purifying, like how they say a fast makes you feel sick at first, and yet in the end more clean. Verbal vomit, is what I mean to get across. Maybe the notion that the cyclical, shrapnel-like thoughts of the scatterbrained, those individuals unnaturally removed from modern society (or even, sometimes, from Reality) still had a niche of people willing to listen to, and maybe evenunderstandthem in a million different and ever-changing ways, was a truly comforting thought to many of the insane and irreplaceable, no matter how good or bad they may have been at expressing themselves, and no matter how awful and isolating it may have initially felt to actually do so.I certainly related to Ginsberg's underbelly of people. I additionally relate to his pain at their loss. I find great tragedy in the fact that some of the most fascinating people I have ever known thought for so long and so hard that they talked themselves into habits, out of love, and away from a world that endlessly appreciated them. Ginsberg felt this, too...the way that modern society chews up and spits out some of its greatest members simply because they cannot cope with its pressures, its rules and expectations, its ugliness and fright; those who left because they falsely felt that they either were unprepared to endure it, or simply didn't deserve it.Howlis a poem for mourning the odd, endless ones. It carves with a jagged blade straight into the bellies of those both saintly and furious, but it is simultaneously the anti-venom for exactly the type if poison that it emits. Embrace in when the time is right (wrong). And please, be good to yourself!