I first read this book when I was 7-going-on-8. I read it, and then I read it again. Then I read it again, and kept going until, according to my personal mythology, I had read it 11 times. And then I stole my school's copy of the book. I hadn't picked it up for many years since then, but this book is woven into my neural pathways every which way, and rereading it still makes me love it more.The Mixed-Up Filesdrew me in with its details and paraphernalia(the instrument cases! the transistor radio! mac and cheese and baked beans!), something I always loved about runaway and/or survival stories. It introduced me to New York City--the New York of the 1960s (the Automat!)--and appealed to my love of museums and old things. I also loved the tone: I knew even then when I was being talked down to, but Konigsburg clearly respects her readers and expects them to be smart. The framing and Mrs. F.'s voice made the book feel more adult. And then it hit me in the gut with its fully-developed characters and its non-preachy life lessons, subtly divulged.I was never the sort of child who wanted to run away, really, but Claudia's simmering ennui and frustration and impotent rage hit me right away. I had never really seen these feelings described on paper in this way, but I felt them, all the time. Like Claudia, I was privileged, smart and loved, but I wanted something more. And I still do. And this book is all about how that's kind of a good thing.The biggest life lesson I absorbed from this book, or maybe it's not a lesson so much as just a way of looking at the world, is the importance of maintaining and nurturing the integrity of your self and being an individual (but not necessarily in any obvious way), while recognizing other people's individuality and that their way of seeing the world is (usually) just as valid as yours. I'm not talking about different beliefs or clashing opinion so much aspersonalities. Claudia and Jamie's relationship illustrates this beautifully. This bit of wisdom is one of the most fundamental things I've ever learned and also one of the hardest to live out.