I don't even know what to do with myself right now. This review probably won't make sense, and I'm probably leaving a shit ton out, but here goes.I was lucky to score an advanced copy of Scarlet from Marissa Meyer while at Comic Con.Totally me.I was in the middle of another book which I quickly finished in order to start this. So, Cinder left us with our heroine basically on the run after finding out that she was Princess Selene. Scarlet opens by introducing us to the new character in this universe, aptly named Scarlet who is looking for her missing Grandmother and along the way meets a mysterious guy who goes by Wolf.The book started off a little slow for me. I, like I'm sure most will be, was more concerned with what was happening with Cinder and Prince Kai than I was with Scarlet and her journey. But Meyer's storytelling would not let that be, and I found myself eagerly enjoying Scarlet's feisty personality while also searching for how Scarlet would come to meet Cinder. How could these two completely different characters come together? How are their pasts joined?Well, let me tell you, the answer is pure genius. Meyer has created such a deep, complex story that when you find out how Scarlet and Cinder are connected, you're just like, whoa. Along with the flawless backstory, Scarlet introduces us to two more characters besides Scarlet herself: Wolf and Thorne. I really hope we see more of them in the final 2 books.And just as in Cinder with the classic Cinderella losing the glass slipper, Meyer's use of the the famed Red Riding Hood scene is flawless. I love the way she just weaves in the fairy tales but makes it work for the plot.Another thing I love about about Meyer's writing, is there's a point in her books that you hit where you suddenly can't put it down. You have to finish it! My point was when Scarlet and Wolf arrive in Paris and I sat on my couch reading like a madwoman until I finished.Now...WHAT AM I SUPPOSED TO DO NOW MARISSA???? THAT WAS NOT AN ENDING??? WHAT WILL CINDER DO NOW? WHAT ABOUT KAI AND HIS ANNOUNCEMENT AT THE END?I wanted this book so bad...so bad!! But now that I have it, I have to wait that much longer for the third one. WHY???????Sigh...I will wait...rather impatiently for 2014 to get here.Just one final note: Prince Kai, no matter what happens:Truth