Ummmm, holy crap this book sounds so damn AMAZING! I want it now! And look at that cover! Damn gorgeous! Eeeep!Best. Fucking. Book. Ever.!~Full review to come~Okay, before I get into this review because I am still a bit mind and emotional fucked right now, I have to say....when I first saw the blurb and the cover for this book, I knew...I KNEW I would love this book. The cover spoke to me and I was instantly drawn to want to read this book. I thought it wasn't coming out til next year but oh my fucking god, when I found out it was out, I was ALL OVER this baby...like a baby on it's mommy's nipple. I was like "GIVE ME THIS NOW!" So I bought it, of course I was finishing another book at the time so that I could give this book ALL of my attention. When my gals recommend a book and hound and hound and hound and demand and demand some more (hint hint Sylvia) I KNOW it's a must-read book! The cover, being such a cover whore that I am I was instantly in love with this book. I mean, look at it. Gorgeous...beautiful...PERFECT. Then to add the blurb...oh yes, gimme gimme gimme gimme! Put a perfect cover with a perfect blurb together and what do you get? A FUCKING MASTERPIECE. Yep, that's what I got. I was never disappointed. OH. MY. GOD.Okay, okay I know, I am babbling too much...like a psycho and y'all are thinking "shut the fuck up and get on with the review dumbass" and so I will before my resolve slips and I break down and fall apart all over again.So we have Camryn Bennett(I wonder if she's related to Josh Bennett?? haha), a 20 year old who is fed up with her monotonous regular going-nowhere life where she works at a department store. Her boyfriend Ian died from a tragice car accident while they were in high school, her parents divorced, her brother Cole went to prison for killing a man during a drunk accident, and her best friend since second grade accuses her of being a lying bitch(in which I wanted to slap across the face...hard). So basically her life is shit. She decides it's time to quit living for everyone else...and start living for herself. And so she does. She sets out to leave North Carolina on a road trip to Idaho(because they are known for their potatoes, which was freakin hilarious how that happened and now when I buy Idaho potatoes, I'll forever think of Cam). When she gets on a bus and starts her new found self-discovery...everything changes.Andrew Parrish is 25 and on a road trip from Texas to see his dying father in Wyoming. He is reluctant to go because he knows that saying goodbye would make this real and it hurts him in the worst way. So, reluctantly he heads out on a bus to face reality...and pain.Little do they know, Camryn and Andrew meet on the same bus...for the same reasons-not sure what they want from life but knowing they want something more than what they're getting now. And so their journey together begins when they meet on the infamous bus and the infamous road trip to Never...."Finally, an under-populated bus I might actually get some deep sleep on. It's all I really want to do. The longer I stay awake, the more I think about all of the things I don't want to think about. I don't know what I'm doing, or where I'm going, but I do know that I want to do whatever it is and get there soon.I doze off after staring out the window next to me for an hour.Muffled headphone music blaring right behind me wakes me up sometime after dark.At first, I just sit here, hoping maybe he'll notice the top of my now fully awake head bobbing over the seat and decide to turn the music down.But he doesn't.I lean up, reaching back to rub a crooked muscle in my neck from sleeping on my arm and then I turn around to look at him. Is he asleep? How can anyone actually sleep with music blasting in their ears like that? The bus is pitch dark except for a couple of dim lights shining down onto books and magazines from above the passenger's seats and the little green and blue lights at the front of the bus in the driver's dashboard. The guy sitting behind me is covered by darkness but I can see one side of his face lit up by the moonlight.I contemplate it for a second and then push myself up with my knees on the seat and I lean over the back of it, reaching out and tapping him on the leg.He doesn't move. I tap him harder. He stirs and slowly opens his eyes, looking at me with my stomach hanging over the top of the seat.He reaches up and pulls the earbuds from his ears, letting the music funnel from the tiny speakers."Mind turning it down a little?""You could hear that?" he says.I raise a brow and say, "Uhhh, yeah, it's pretty loud."He shrugs and thumbs the MP3 player for the volume button and the music fades."Thanks." I say and slide back down in my seat.Okay, that was long and for some reason I was compelled to type all of that. But that was Cam and Andrew's first encounter. And I think it was absolutely amazing and meaningful. Haha, yeah I'm nuts. But seriously this book had me up and down and on turns after turns and more turns with them that I was not sure where up or down was anymore. I was not sure where I was anymore. I absolutely LOVED EVERY MINUTE of this fabulous joyride. I for one love roadtrips. This book made me want to get in my car, drive to a bus station and ride until I was beyond lost. I can't describe my feelings for this book. I just, I am so lost right now. This book made me FEEL every emotion-good or bad that the characters felt and then some. Right now, I am bawling again, just thinking about this experience I shared with my friends. I loved it.Camryn. She was fantastic. The kind of girl that everyone would want to be friends with. She's smart, witty, funny, sarcastic(which probably goes with witty), sweet, caring and just plain amazing. I loved her character-especially when she starts to come into her own and become herself around Andrew. I love her sassy side and the side that she initally shows us eventhough she is trusting, she puts up a barrier-to protect herself, which I can completely understand her reasoning. Then once she realizes Andrew's intentions, she puts them down and lets him in. I loved her romantic side too. Once she feels comfortable, she really laid it on thick....my God, she shocked me but in the best way. I was happy to share this journey with her. She's very likeable and relatable. Ahhhhh, she's just.....amazing!Andrew. Oh my sweet sweet sexy Andrew Parrish. I can't even think of the right words to describe him. He is just the most amazing guy I've ever gotten to know. He reminds me of my Joshy Bennett and that's why I've taken to him so fast and hard. Seriously, his sweet and caring side was truly incredible. I loved his fierce protectiveness of Cam. Though some may refer to it as a crazy jealous side, but I see why-and once the readers read into it more, the more they'll understand as well. There is NOTHING and I mean NOTHING.....I didn't like about him. He's so irresistable from the start-from his sarcastic dirty mouth(which I happen to love by the way) to his sweet soulful understanding side. I loved every minute I spent with him and like Cam, it was hard NOT to fall head over heels in love with this boy. He rocked my world....in EVERY way, and yes....the naughty way too.I loved how we got both POV's. Honestly, we NEEDED both pov's to relate better to both characters. Jessica did a remarkable job of developing the story from the beginning to the very last page. I noticed alot of people felt the story was dragging in the beginning. I didn't feel that way one bit. I loved every second of every page of every minute I spent with these two. I love road trips so I never got bored...but always wondering where their next stop would be or where they were headed next. Once they got off the bus and both went on the road trip to Never-together by car, I was so giddy with excitement. I felt like I was in the back seat and experiencing this whole trip with them. It was AMAZING! Just to get on the open road and go....who the fuck does that? Boy this book sure made me want to do it now. Damn, why didn't I think of that when I had the chance? LOLThe relationship. First, I was glad it wasn't insta-love...or at least in the sense of "Oh you're hot, I love you let's get married and have babies and run away together". It was never like that. I felt this friendship turned romance really developed slowly and just right. I was glad Cam had kept her wall up for awhile....long enough to make us squirm and say "Okay, now let's move on, we know you love each other-QUIT STALLING....YOU'VE WAITED LONG ENOUGH" because at least it wasn't a quick one two three thing. It would have lost the appeal then and wouldn't have been as exciting or intense. As it was, I started to get frustrated with both of them for ignoring their attraction. But once things started to take a turn....OH MY GOD. I was so excited and giddy and squealing like a teenager. Perfect."OK, defenses are back up. Bring it on.I snarl over at him, crossing my arms."First off, I don't listen to Justin Beiber. And second, Gaga isn't so bad. Playing the shock-value card a little too long, I admit but I like some of her stuff.""That's shit music and you know it." he replies and shakes his head.""Classic rock is where it's at," he says matter-of-factly and then gazes out ahead. "Zeppelin, the Stones, Journey, Foreigner." He lets his head fall to the side to look over at me again. "Any of that ringing any bells?"Ahhhhh, a man after my own heart. He likes the shit I love. Yes, Journey, Foreigner and the Stones...some of my faves. I'm an 80's music freak! I love you Andrew."What's your name?" he asks, setting his drink on the grass.I wonder if I should give him my real name. "Cam." I say, settling on the short version."Short for what?"I didn't expect that. I hesitate, my eyes trailing, "Camryn." I admit. I figure with all the lies I'm going to have to keep track of, I might as well be truthful about my first name at least. It's one less-significant piece of information I don't have to remember to keep under wraps."I'm Andrew. Andrew Parrish.""So how old are you?""Twenty-five," he says. "What about you?""Twenty.""Well, it's good to meet you twenty-year-old Cam short for Camryn heading to Idaho to see her sister who just had a baby."Sigh. I love you Andrew, God damn he is perfect. And he's from TEXAS....which is where I live. Ahhhh, I want to go stalk him. Wait, what? He's not real? HOW DARE YOU SAY THAT. *hands cover mouth in bafflement*Andrew moments:"She wasn't shy to tell me to turn my music down, with a snippy-ass attitude at that. She got pissed when i accused her of havinf Beiber Fever (it pisses me off that I even know what the fuck that means-I blame that on society) and I get the feeling that she would have no problem kicking me in the nuts if I touched her in an inappropriate way. Not that I would. Hell no. But it's good to know that she's the type.Hell yeah, I like this girl.""If you were going to let me fuck you, you would have to let me own you.""A woman who knows what she wants sexually and isn't afraid to express it is so fucking hot, Camryn-Tell. Me. What. You. Want. Or, I won't give it to you." OH. DEAR GOD. *fans self*"I absolutely fucking melt when she looks up at me like that. How would I ever say no to her? Whether is was about sleeping next to a pile of cow shit or under a bridge overpass next to a homeless drunk-I would sleep anywhere with her.""I kissed you because I wanted to," I say. "I want to do everything with you, Camryn. Trust me! In just a few days I've managed more positions with you than there are in the Kama Sutra. I've wanted to-." I notice I'm white-knuckling the steering wheel.""Don't lie to me, baby, did you get hurt anywhere? I swear to fucking God if you did I'm going after them.""Just pretend you're my girlfriend, at least that way no one will fuck with you, or they're less likely to try, anyway."Okay, I could go on and on. And more likely the best quotes from Andrew are toward the end but I my nook is dying and going through it right now is not a good idea I should have highlighted them. Moral of this review is.....READ THIS BOOK. Seriously. It will make you laugh, cry, swoon, gasp, FEEL and most of all.....LOVE. This is one story that will stay with me forever-and beyond. I love Cam and Andrew and never will forget their beautiful magical story for as long as I live.The end. Oh my God, the ending will have you hyperventilating and grabbing your stomach from the painful bomb that drops from under you. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCE ARE YOU TO STOP READING......KEEEP READING. I PROMISE IT WILL BE WORTH THE PAIN AND DEVASTATION AND ANGER AND ANGUISH. Please.....PLEASE KEEP READING UNTIL THE LAST PAGE.There aren't enough stars in this world to give this book....I would give it infinite and beyond amount of stars. BRILLIANT. FABULOUS. PERFECT. UNFORGETTABLE. MUST-READ! Now I need a print copy for my bookshelf. GREAT JOB JESSICA. GREAT FUCKING JOB!