5OH, ANDREW!!!StarsI ALWAYS TRUST MY DAUGHTER!My 31 year old daughter turns me on to the most fascinating NA books, and this one is no exception. Never asking what the book is about, trusting she knows what I enjoy, I went in blind. Within the first few pages, I knew she was right ...... I was going to love it!I know I am really late to the party reading this one, as it has been out for a number of years.But, it is one I will never forget!What begins as a friendship between two 'lost souls' who meet on a bus while traveling the countryside in search of answers, turns into the most compelling and engaging read. I reveled in the journey they were on and simply loved the dialogue between the two as they get to know one another. I love a sweet and sexy romance!Ms. Redmerski blew me away with her writing skills and style, and dual POV's are always right up my alley.Camryn Bennett, twenty years old, is a dispirited soul, still trying to figure out who she is without Ian, the love of her life, who died way too young in a car accident. The cheating rebound guy, her brother in prison, and her parent's divorce just adds fuel to the already depressing fire. She is in limbo land and not in a happy place. To top it all off, she and her best OTT friend, Natalie, have a huge fight involving a boyfriend, and she refuses to see or talk to Camryn.Disillusioned, disappointed and determined to take control of her life and the need to feel alive again, Camryn buys a bus ticket and starts traveling across the country with no real destination in mind. She just knows she has to get away for awhile. Along the way, an incredibly attractive male boards the bus and sits directly behind her. He annoys the hell out of Camryn, but eventually he wears her down, and they become "traveling friends." His name is Andrew, he is twenty-five and is headed to Wyoming to say goodbye to his dying father. He is also trying to figure out the ways and whys of life.Andrew ...... wow ...... how to describe Andrew? Adorably funny, matter of fact and honest to a fault (well mostly, except for one big secret). Sexy would be a total understatement, and he is beautiful, inside and out, with a killer smile and gorgeous green eyes. He is also a bit of a mystery, which just adds more dimension to the storyline. Simply put, Andrew is unforgettable!And because Andrew is absolutely irresistible, fun times are ahead once Camryn finally gives up the fight to keep him at arms length!Thanks for another great recommendation, Morgan, aka Shuggie Bear!