I am utterly speechless! I really don't know what to say except that I have officially found my favourite Contemporary Romance book. J.A. Redmerski you are one freaking brilliant story teller who knows how to capture the heart, make you blush, make you cry *oh how I cried...and I'm still crying* make you gasp out loud, laugh hysterically and pant breathlessly. I am totally in love with this book and in love with both Camryn and Andrew...he has officially become my new book boyfriend. He is one hell of a sexy beast who does what he wants and says what he wants. He makes me want to talk dirty endlessly and not feel one bit of shame for it....RAWR RAWR RAWR.Before I continue on with my rant I would love to thank J.A. Redmerski for the opportunity to read this amazing book. I was so delighted and elated when she asked me if I wanted an ARC ecopy of The Edge of Never and I could never decline any book she offers me. I love her style of writing and how raw and honest it is without feeling bashful or timid. She really doesn't hold back at all and I love that. She is refreshing and so humbled, it's really hard to not love her and her books. She is just one of us readers who loves a sexy bad boy, a strong female character and an amazing storyline. Thank you so much and I can't wait to read more of what you have to offer.Okay, so back to the review. The Edge of Never is a simple story about a girl named Camryn Bennett who is in search of something more. Her life, up until now, has been plauged with so much heartache and misery, she feels a need to escape, almost to the point like if she doesn't flee she will drown and suffocate in her own misery. I loved Camryn and her will to just drop everything and leave, just pack a few things in a bag and buy a bus ticket to Idaho because it is home to the spud. Something was calling her to do it and if she didn't she was going to bury herself in the hole that she had surprisingly found herself digging for the last two years. Who could blame her though of everything that had happened up until then, but at least she recognised the sign to just get up a leave. And that's what she did. She found herself sitting on a bus and headed to Idaho.Behind her sat another wounded soul, set out to Wyoming to say goodbye to his dying father. I give you Andrew Parrish...oh my Lord. This guy is everything a girl could ever dream of (and ladies, we have had those dreams). He has tattooes, smoking green eyes, a fit body you will envision yourself wanting to be hovering over you, a dirty mouth *ahem* that can sing also and play the guitar, and a freaking sexy car that will rival Dean Winchesters...RAWR RAWR RAWR. He is your typical alpaha male that will pummel anyone for you, sweet talk his way out of anything but will hold your head over the toilet while you throw your guts out and lie down on the dirty toilet floor with you because you can't move...I'm crying just thinking about him and he literally is one hell of a man that will make you weak at the knees and have you crying out his name from pure pleasure. Oh how I fell in love with Andrew Parrish...le sigh!!It is inevitable that these two hit it off. Their flirtatious banter is remarkable and their underlying attraction to one another is palpable. My heart was flattering and I was literally squirming in my seat and blushing so hard. I was often left breathless and waiting in anticipation everytime they got so close to one another and then one of them would pull back. They both had their own issues going on and you are literally dying inside for them.I was completely frustrated and totally captivated with Cam and Andrew's story. This is a love story like no other and I have to say that going on this road trip with them was the best ride of my life. I really cannot say how much I love them so much and they are my new favourite couple. I loved how they flew by the seat of the pants and went into everything head on and totally fearless, except when it came down to revealing a little bit of their soul to one another. But, just when you think that everything is peachy and going beautifully...then BAM!! I was shocked and couldn't help but cry my heart out. Like Cam, I suspecting that Andrew was hiding something but I never thought in a million years it would be that and my heart was breaking and I just wanted to throw myself down the hole that Cam had been digging for herself before the road trip. OMG Jess, you really know how to scare the living shite out of someone and then you go ahead a make me cry some more...but in the happiest sense *doing a happy dance and gyrating* hehe!I'm telling you all that this book will literally blow your socks off and it is a must read. You will fall in love and invest your soul into Cam and Andrew and their amazing story. You will laugh, you will cry, you will pant and blush and be left needing a damn cold shower that's for sure, and you will be holding your heart in your hand and waiting in breathless anticipation. The Edge of Never is just one of those reads that you wish will go on forever and are sad to know that it's a standalone, which you will revisit time and time again. I love this book and I know you all will too...I know now why J.A. Redmerski has labelled this her baby, cause I sure as hell know she has left her soul hidden within the pages of this beautiful love story.