After reading the Alchemist by Paulo Coelho, I decided that it was time to read another of his works.This book was about Veronika and how she had decided to die, and attempted suicide. She awakens from her attempt to realize that the attempt was not successful, but that she had cause damage to her heart with the medication that she had tried to overdose on and that she would die within days.Veronika uses her remaining time to reflect and through her own self-discovery she realizes that she should have been more open to feelings, and more importantly life itself.As with the Alchemist, I read it with a pencil in hand. Below are several of the most poignant parts that I had underlined."But humans are all alike, she thought. We have replaced nearly all of our emotions with fear.""Veronika did a her mother asked, sure that her mother had enough experience of life to understand reality. She finished her studies, went to university, got a good degree, but ended up working as a librarian. "I should have been crazier." But, as it undoubtedly happens with most people, she had found this out too late.""No one should let themselves get used to anything.""You have two choices: to control your mind or to let your mind control you.""I do have a chance to live. Am I making good use of it?""I've got a lot to do, things that I have postponed for some future date, in the days when I thought life would last forever.""Basically everything that happens in our life is our fault, and our fault alone."... because I need to run the risk of being alive.""No. You're someone who is different, but that wants to be the same as everyone else. And that in my view is a serious illness.""The danger of an adventure is worth a thousand days of ease and comfort.""An awareness of death encourages us to live more intensely.""She would consider each day a miracle-which indeed it is, when you consider the number of unexpected things that could happen in each second of our fragile existences.""You have two choices: to control your mind or to let your mind control you.""I do have a chance to live. am I making good use of it?""I've got a lot to do, things that i have postponed for some future date, in the days when i thought life would last forever.""Basically everything that happens in our life is our fault, and our fault alone."... because i need to run the risk of being alive.""No. You're someone who is different, but that wants to be the same an everyone else. And that in my view is a serious illness.""The danger of an adventure is worth a thousand days of ease and comfort.""An awareness of death encourages us to live more intensely.""She would consider each day a miracle-which indeed it is, when you consider the number of unexpected things that could happen in each second of our fragile existences."