Considering how late to the BDB party I am, I'm not going to write a review on this book. This is just a "collection of my random thoughts" so I can keep the story straight in my mind, and therefore it's bound to befull of spoilers. If you haven't read this book yet and don't like being spoiled, stop reading this "review" now. I'm not kidding!Okay, here I go...When I finishedLover Awakened, the previous book in the series, I didn't feel much compelled to keep going with the BDB books. I mean, I really liked the 1st 3 books, but I didn't think that Butch and Marissa belonged together and wasn't that interested in reading about them. Eventually, my curiosity couldn't stand it any longer and I had to find out how Butch, Marissa and, well, Vishous would "untangle the web" of their messed up lives.Now that I readLover Revealed, am I happy with Butch and Marissa's bonding? Yes, absolutely! Ms. Ward changed my mind about them and I ended up being very glad to see them together. I so wanted them together that I started disliking V for his "crush" on Butch. I already had to suffer Phury pining for Bella inLover Awakened, and I wasn't in the mood for a repeat performance featuring V and Butch. At one point, I started to think that V was just pathetic, and that isn't a good thing considering his book is the next one in the series.Anyway, back to Butch and Marissa... I loved Butch and the way he was completely devoted to Marissa. I never doubted his love for her. When I thought they didn't belong together, it was only because I didn't think she was worthy of him. In this book, Ms. Ward did a good job redeeming Marissa. Even though Marissa grated on my nerves a couple of times, especially when she resorted to her cowardice due to her inability to deal with Butch's joining the Brotherhood's fight against thelessers, she came a long way from the wimpy spineless doormat she'd been in the 1st books. So I ended up liking her, but she was far from becoming a favorite heroine of mine.As for having Butch turned into a vampire and being inducted into the Brotherhood, I loved it! Halfway through the story, I began to worry about his future as I thought Ms. Ward was going to turn him into a "good"lesserbut, thankfully, that didn't happen. It was nice to see Butch with a new purpose in life because, frankly, he deserved being more than a BDBpetwhose sole job was to drive the Brothers around. I have to say that I'm a bit wary of Butch's future, though. All that "inhaling business" left the door opened for bad things to happen, and I don't trust Ms. Ward not to pull something "nasty" unexpectedly. After all, this is the same author who didn't hesitate to kill Wellsie inLover Awakened...A BDB book isn't only about the main H/h, soLover Revealedwasn't only about Butch and Marissa. As usual, there were other storylines running along the main love story and, even though I don't particularly like it, I'm getting used to it. I still can't stand the scenes with thelessers, mainly because they all seem pretty much the same: thelesser du jour(pick any letter from the alphabet) hatches an evil plan to kill the Brothers, recruits a new "apprentice", the evil plan fails, the Omega gets p!ssed, and thelesser du jouris killed. Lather, rinse, repeat, and you're ready for the next book.As for the other storylines, V had some major scenes in this book - as expected - and I can't say I was happy with them. Besides his pining for Butch, which I already said it was annoying, his kinky side was a bit disturbing because I'm not into BDSM. I'd better brace myself for a bumpy ride next...*drags her feet to getLover Unbound*On the bright side, I enjoyed getting updates on John and I'm looking forward to histransition, even though I feel it isn't going to be an easy one. If only Tohr was around to help the boy get his act together... Thankfully, Wrath and Z stepped up to the plate and knocked some sense into him.All things considered, I enjoyed this read better than I had expected. I haven't become a die-hard fan of this series yet, but I'll keep reading it... Well, I'm going to readLover Unboundand see how it goes.