5 Stars!!!I absolutely loved this book!! It had great plot development with lots of twists!! Also, the character development from the previous books in the Black Dagger Brotherhood series was amazing!So this book is all about Butch! To be honest...I was not as enthusiastic to read about Butch compared to the other Brothers in the Black Dagger Brotherhood. My impression was that his character was going to be kinda stale. BUT I WAS SOOO WRONG!! Butch's character was developed so beautifully in this book. His relationship with Vishous was so cute. They share a bond that is unlike any other of the brothers in the brotherhood. Their interactions with each other and internal dialogue showed that they would do anything for each other.Butch obviously had to fall in love with someone in this book because that seems to be the reoccurring theme in this series... and that person was Marissa! What a surprise!Honestly, Marissa's character was a little annoying. She is the complete opposite of Butch. And in real life opposites don't attract!! I mean they come from two completely different paths of life! She is rich and entitled to anything she wants and Butch had to fight for literally everything he has...which isn't much. I can see how they "balance" each other out because Butch is very "gritty" (for the lack of a better word) and Marissa is very proper and innocent, but come on that just doesn't happen outside of fairy tales! However, I did appreciate the level of comfort Butch was able to provide Marissa when they finally decided to consummate their relationship. Their sexual attraction at each other was so angsty but Butch went very easy and gentle on Marissa.Okay now lets talk about thislesserstuff...So surprise surprise Mr. X is back. I was kinda getting tired of his character until the very end of the book when he and Butch finally interacted with one another. The entire book was so built up on Mr. X searching the face of the Earth for Butch so he could cover his ass from the Omega and I was glad when they finally interacted with one another.Okay now onto John...For the love of all that is holy in this world PLEASE have something happen with his character! He is always so miserable! Which is understandable because Tohr abandoned him but come on this is just getting to be painful! I'm glad he finally has some friends and got paired with Layla for feeding after his transition! That scene when she dropped her robe thing and John's eyes went wide open had me dyingggg xDA couple of other thoughts and questions I wanna throw in:Butch may save the vampire race?? Idk how I feel about that.Zsadist chasing Bella around the house was SO CUTE!!I feel so bad for Rehv because he really liked Marissa and would have taken her as his shellen!!And lastly...WHAT DF HAPPENED BETWEEN V AND BUTCH DURING THE INDUCTION??? LIKE WAS IT GAY? WAS IT JUST BETWEEN FRIENDS? WHAT WAS THAT??Overall, this book was better than I expected it to be!! I cannot wait to read about Vicious in the next book!