Opening Line:"What if I told you I had a fantasy?"This is the story of Butch O'Neil The 4th member of the Black Dagger Brotherhood to find love. A former cop, he's been living amongst the Vampire Warriors since stumbling into their secret world back in book 1 (Dark Lover) Unable now to return to his old human life yet not really fitting in with the Brothers either he is a man lost between two worlds. He's also hopelessly in love with a woman far above his station. The beautiful socialite Marissa, but she hasn't spoken to him for 2 books now and despite his pining and continual drive bys of her house no longer knows he exists. Butch's only constant would be his "tight" relationship with his best friend Vishous, although he's been acting a little strange lately. In any case the roommates have become increasingly close, sharing everything. And as Butch goes through some major changes during the course of this book their bond will only grow stronger as they face life and death together.LOVER REVEALED is quite the ride and a great addition to this series. Erotic, thrilling, with non stop action and revelations galore. Of course all the Brothers stories continue and their ongoing sub-plots will keep you completely absorbed.Butch is feeling sorry for himself, drinking too much Scotch, longing for Marissa and wondering where he belongs. Forbidden to fight for the Vampire race that has adopted him he is beginning to feel worthless. Living in their house, wearing expensive designer suits and driving a flash car all paid for by the Brotherhood. He can't respect himself and is finding little comfort in his new lifestyle.One evening after leaving the nightclub Zerosum Butch has a chance encounter with some Lessers and after saving a young Vampire is taken hostage. He is then tortured for the location of the Brotherhood and when he refuses to break, the Omega (Lessers Leader) places a piece of his evil self inside Butch. Then he is left for dead. The Omega's hope is that Butch will act as a homing device after the Brothers find him. Vishous rescues Butch in scenes very reminiscent of Zsadist going after Bella inLover Awakened. (Bordering on obsessed) Then transports the half dead cop to Haver's medical clinic where Butch is placed in isolation due to the black body fluids he's spewing and the fact that he now smells like baby powder. At V's request Marissa comes to the clinic to help Butch recover and our love story begins.Marissa is a sheltered, virginal, aristocrat who has never forgotten the cop and after a week together in isolation the two have fallen hopelessly in love. When Marissa needs to feed however there is a problem. She can't use Butch because his blood is weak and eventually she would kill him so she is forced to use another male (I won't tell you who.) This makes Butch crazy. Causing him to get drunk. Again. And this is the first of our couples many annoying break-ups and make-ups. Back at the mansion V and Butch grow even closer as V heals the evil within Butch. There are suggestions of feelings deeper than friendship here and they are explored beautifully. I think the innuendoes show the depth of their feelings and V's true loneliness. Anyways. Butch and Marisa get back together and have a lot of great sex while V searches for an explanation to Butch's bonding scent and how to make him into a true member of the BDB.Marissa and Butch's continual conflict and angst annoyed me to a degree but this is such a great book that I was able to overlook it. There's just so much else going on too. The little snippets of Wrath, Phury, Rhage and Zsadist's lives are excellent. Rhevenge takes on a bigger role and John Mathew ups his training as he tries to come to terms with the loss of Wellsie and Tohr. Zsadist is an unexpected help here. There's the usual witty humour and fabulously erotic love scenes. And the ending is per usual JR Ward jaw-dropping awesome.I can highly recommend this book however I would suggest reading this series in order to get the full affect of these sexy Black Dagger menVishous is up next inLover Unboundand I am wondering who could possibly love this sexy yet nasty BDSM Brother?