5 Outstanding DaggersMy love affair with the BDB continues.....it absolutely keeps getting better and better. After 4 books, I am fully vested with the Brotherhood and can't wait for every book.Lover Revealed is about Butch. He is the human that the BDB has taken in from the beginning. There is something special about Butch but no one knows why that is......The 2 quotes below sum up Butch perfectly.Sometimes fate takes you in fucked up directions.Still on the outside looking in.Even though the BDB have taken him in their fold, Butch is lost. He's not a cop anymore, he has no family, he can't fight with the Warriors and his one true love, an aristocratic vampire, Marissa, doesn't want anything to do with him.Marissa, the unwanted, forsaken female. She's unmated and a virgin. Could her life get any worse. She thought she had a connection with Butch. It was intense and she dared to think that this might be the one. But fate sometimes doesn't go as we plan.Butch is taken by the Lessers. He is tortured for information but Butch would never revel anything about the BDB. Butch does meet the Omega and is forever changed. He is not killed but left so that hopefully he would be found by the BDB. Butch will be found by the one person that he has a special connection with, Vishous.V rubbed his face. What the hell was he going to do without that smart-ass, tough-talking, Scotch-sucking SOB? The rough bastard somehow smoothed the edges of life, probably because he was like sandpaper, a scratchy, persistent wrong-way-rub- that left everything more even.The evolution of Butch and V's friendship is so beyond words. It is fanfreakingtastic, it was a true and inspiring relationship and one that is deep and emotional. I LOVE THEM!!!I must say that after getting to know V in this story....VNow, Marissa and Butch have a rocky relationship. They have had miscommunications that messes with their relationship. Marissa is lost and skittish and fearful. I loved and hated her. We got to hear all of Butch's story, his background is heartbreaking but it all makes sense in the end. Marissa finally figures it out, with the help of her friends, that loving Butch for the man he becomes, is truly the man she fell in love with at the beginning.This story comes full circle as to why Butch was taken in by the BDB. Everything that has happened to him from birth to now is explained. It is such a fantastic, suspenseful, emotional, and of course a sexy story......I couldn't read it fast enough. I couldn't put it down. I love that besides Butch and Marissa, all the other characters are involved in the story as well as getting to meet new ones. The story and ending isBR with Seductress Pinkie and Temptress Pinkie-we have crossed into the BDB lover club -xoxo(view spoiler)[Thanks for putting me up for it... trahyner." As V's eyes flared, Butch said, "Yeah, I looked up what the word meant. 'Beloved friend' fits you perfect as far as I'm concerned."V flushed. Cleared his throat. "Good deal, cop. Good... deal."That's you," Wrath said. "You shall be called the Black Dagger warrior Dhestroyer, descended of Wrath son of Wrath." "But you'll always be Butch to us," Rhage cut in. "As well as hard-ass. Smart-ass. Royal pain in the ass. You know, whateverthe situation calls for. I think as long as there's an ass in there, it'll be accurate.""How about bastard?" Z suggested."Nice. I feel that."(hide spoiler)]