Stayed up late in the night to finish this one. Result: tears swelling in my eyes. Not from lack of sleep.Breathtakingly beatiful. Review tomorrow. I need to sleep on it.Tomorrow:"After an eternity, I swallow hard. I willnotcry. Love is illogical, love has consequences- I did this to myself, and I should be able to take it.So take it, June."So. That ending.June was likeAnd Day was likeAnd the both of them were likeAnd it's better if I don't tell you whatIwas like because the image of that ball of tears and pain wouldn't be very pleasing to the eye nor the stomach and I want nothing but your welfare. Love you guys.PROPER REVIEW-maybe.I have to admit, the first one hundred or so pages were slightly disappointing. A little boring, as many others said, but not only: here, the realtionship between June and Day (I was typing Jay and Dune and I am likely to do this mistake again; I apologise in advance) is, to say the least, irritatingly awkward. They seem a bit, just a bit, silly. And then Day came out with that "I love you" and I thought we had lost Marie Lu.In my entire life, I have never been so happy to be wrong.I have loved very few fictional couples with the same intensity with which I loved June and Day in this book. What won over my heart was the complete, unbreakabledevotionthey harbor one for the other, a devotion that it even more valuable because of the very short period of time they've known each other.It is a thoughtless, selfless, groundless faith, and all these 'less' are its strongest 'more'. It is this inconsideration that makes them more willing to risk everything, more brave in the face of all the adversities, more determinate to fight for what they believe in and for the ones they love.The bottom line is, not only is Marie Lu able to bring me to like and truly understand a love triangle (seeThe Rose Society), but she's also able to bring me to like and understand a glaring example ofinsta-love. So these are the options: 1. this woman has superpowers or 2. this woman has superpowers. Am I right or am I right?Also, June's relationship with Metias. We saw him for barely twenty pages in book one and then only through June's memories, but it's as if he is an outright character, surely more vivid than many other whimps that fill ya literature and dare to call themselves alive. And the way June figured out what was going on thank to her dream of him? Wonderfu and moving. one of my favourite moments.Being clear that what I adore of Marie Lu's storytelling is the way she shapes her characters, it won't take you aback to hear I didn't even mind the insufferable Tess. She really behaved like a ninny, childish brat here, but she had all the reasons to do so. She's only, what, thirteen? I am actually surprised she didn't freak out before. And again, I am kind of on her side; Day's blind loyalty toward June couldn't not seem born of a mindless and fleeting puppy love to her. And yes, of course it was horrible of her to turn her back on him like she did, but it was coherent with the development of her character, so I am fine with it.Anden. I amsoglad he(view spoiler)[is not the same old ambitious young leader, possibly the son of the former/actual leader, who seems good but at last inevitably turns out to be the bad guy -any resemblance toThe Darkest Mindsis purely coincidental.(hide spoiler)]This suffices for me to love him.Going back to the flaws of the first part of the book, another fact I can't help but mention is the fact that way too many things reminded me of The Hunger Games. Really, way too many. The thing of the streak of red hair, for instance, appears a bit inane to me. It sounds like a mention to The Hunger Games (the pin, the braid) rather than a truly original element or something Marie Lu put in the story for some specific intent. Or Day's reputation: it's an impression that stuck to me since book one, but I feel like some more focus on his wrongdoings, crimes or whatever was needed in order to make him a believable inspiration for such a large crowd. I don't know, maybe it's just me.And, last but not least, the ending. I refuse to talk about it. I think I have some ideas about where the story is going with that:(view spoiler)[when the doctor says the tumor (is that it? whatever) is situated near the hippocampus, what do you want me to think?(hide spoiler)]. I really hope I am wrong though. It would be too painful.Oh, wait. Marie Lu is so sadistic it's scary. Which means that there is no way for me to avoid that.Championwill be a dagger in the heart.