BeforeI started this book, I distinctively remember running my hands over the cover, over the embossed letters that read,The Kite Runner, with not a thought spared but just a sense of hope and anticipation.Now,afterI've finished it, I'm once again running my hands over them.Those letters that read,The Kite Runner.Those letters that mean a lot more than what they seemed to a few days ago.Yes.Oh.No.Yes.Oh.Oh.This is just a tiny fraction of "Oh"s that Ifeltduring my journey through this beauty and beast of a book. And each of these differ in what they incited, invoked, in me. Yet all so powerful and painful and grudgingly piquant.If you want a psychoanalysis of the characters and a dissection of the plot lines, with a thousand different adjectives for the mesmerizingly written prose, you're at the wrong place. Seriously. This is just going to be me, and my flailing traitorous emotions.So, What do I feel ?Beauty. Yes, I feel beauty.Marred with reality, with the wonder and ugliness, with all of it.And I feel love.Love towards this book.Amir and Hassan, the Sultans of Kabul.Towards everything that should not have gone wrong.And I feel hatred.Hatred against what happened.What shouldn't have happened. No.And at everything that did go wrong.I feel horror, that is not macabre, but so vicious, so cruel, it hurts. An undercurrent of anguish that haunts you wherever you go.And I feel love again, with all it's highs and lows and everything in between.For you, A thousand times over.And I feel a lot more.That I'm just not able to articulate.And I didn't cry.Maybe because, in order to cry there must be frissons of lachrymosity rocking me. But when even happiness forecasts heartbreak, when the whole book is a shadow of melancholy cloaking me, wistfulness following me, crying is a reprieve that I feel this book has denied me. Why ?Even though there are no tears, I know that I'm as close to crying, bawling and sobbing inconsolably all at once than I've ever been for I'm a turmoil inside.