It's about time I write this review.I wasn't blown away by Shiver, but that doesn't mean I wasn't eagerly waiting for Linger. I seem to be in the minority here, but I liked Linger more than I did Shiver.I still don't understand Sam though. I've decided not call him gay anymore, because he makes itabundantlyclear that he loves Grace. So instead, I will just call him feminine. I mean this boy1. bakes bread2. reads German poetry3. writes sappy love songs4. cooks5. folds paper6. is sensitive (aka moody). And not in the sexy-never-know-what-hes gonna-do way, but in the oh-no-hes-crying-again way.Seriously, this boy would get eaten alive in any high school. I still like Grace though. She's neat. Smart and savvy.But I am glad its not just those two anymore. If I had to read another 350 paged sappy lovefest between those two, I wouldn't be able to take it. So I'm glad for the new POV of Isabel and Cole. I've always liked Isabel. She's ballsy but not invulnerable. I like how she isn't portayed as perfect. And then there's Cole....I won't even try to hide the crush I have on him. *shrugs* I have a thing for damaged rock stars. It was interesting to see the whole situation through their eyes. It kept the story fresh, and I didn't get confused when ever there was a shift in perspective. And I don't care much about Isabel and Cole as a couple. That's not really necessary.And of course I was pissed at the parents. Not because they did what did in itself, but because they did it without precedent. Its kinda like when my mother let my dog run around the yard just after installing the electric fence. My dog was running around, not a care in the world, unaware that a few feet away was an underground wire that would shock her if she came near it. My dog was not aware that the boundry existed, which is why it was made all the more cruel when she got zapped.The writing, as usual, was good. There is something so delicate about it that sets the mood for the story. The story would be absolutely suckish if the writing wasn't so good, which is probably why I was able to tolerate the slow pace.So I liked it, and definitely have a few questions. Forever needs to come NOW.