While readingLinger, I kept thinking, "Wow, I really like this. This is awesome. But I still likeShiverbetter..." And I kept that sentiment up until the last few chapters. Then it ended. And now, I have to say that I like both books EQUALLY. I agree,Linger's ending isn't entirely out of the blue, and I actually had my suspicions that the story *would* end "that way," but my reading experience was still enjoyable and engrossing.I do think it's fair to say that the tones ofLingerandShiverare a tad different.Linger(in my opinion) didn't seem quite as urgent and while I still felt a sense of foreboding, it wasn't quite as strong as with the preceding book. For me,Lingerwas like a cool-down lap around the track: the story moved at a steadier pace, and that enabled the reader (me) to examine characters a little better and focus on other parts of the story that took a back seat to the main upfront obstacle ofShiver. I hope that makes sense. I will not say thatShiverwas 'exciting' andLingerwas 'boring,' because that's not true. ButLingerwas...well, "lingering."I was actually very impressed with the characterization of this story. Yes, there are 4 perspectives here as compared to only 2 in the previous book. Isabel is now a main character, and a new character named Cole is introduced. I was a little wary going in toLingerabout this setup, and in all honesty, I was prepared to skim the I&amp;C segments, just because I had already told myself that Grace and Sam "were the important ones." Well, I quickly changed my tune. I loved how Maggie incorporated all 4 narratives into the overall story, and I think it was a really smart move story-wise. Isabel and Cole are more complex than Sam and Grace, even though all 4 characters have dysfunctional elements (do you guys notice that pretty much all of the main characters come from varying degrees of crappy families?). What made characterization of this story so enjoyable to me was a the delicate balance of similar and contrasting behaviors - Isabel and Cole are not such polar opposites from Grace and Sam that they have nothing in common. Rather, they compliment each other well: where one is weak, the other is strong, where one is impulsive, the other is cool and controlled. The only little "thing" I had with the 4 narratives was that sometimes perspectives would change multiple times throughout a single chapter, and it made the transitions really abrupt. Like from what I can remember inShiver, Grace and Sam for the most part alternated by chapter. Here, there were some occasions were each of the 4 perspectives would be featured in a single chapter, and so the transitioning was just kind of abrupt. But to the author's credit, I always knewwhowas speaking, and I don't just mean because at the top it said "COLE" or "ISABEL." The voices were so distinct that I quickly got an idea of who was now narrating.Also what I liked about the characters (and I'm emphasizing Isabel and Cole more) is that while they were all complicated and flawed, they never really used their flaws as crutches. Well, Cole does a little bit, but (without dropping spoilers) he eventually makes himself useful and actually starts to give a wang about other people. So that was interesting to watch him grow. And Isabel is just about the coolest character since Thalia: I LOVED her so much because while she is snarky and a little on the bossy side, she's a very hands-on, take charge kind of girl, and she was exactly what Sam and Grace needed. I love Sam and Grace, but even they needed a little nudging here and there. Isabel's strengths are balanced by her anxieties, and that made her seem real but also inspiring. I like characters you can not only relatetobut alsolook up to, and there's a lot to be learned from Isabel (in particular).And now it's July 2010 and I've got a whole freaking year until this series comes to a close! Agghh! So in a nutshell:Lingerwas just as enjoyable and exciting asShiver, and fans of the first book will NOT be disappointed. Figure skater Maggie has earned another gold medal with this one :)