How do you start the review of one of the best books you have ever read?Do justice to it? I'll do my best.Linger is the story of Sam, Grace, Isabel with the introduction of a new character to the mix Cole.I don't believe in spoilers. I believe in telling people the reasons why this book is such a need for readers of the genre. Here it goes. Words describing what to expect.Grace: Changing, Unpredictable, Strong, stoic, beautiful as ever, In pain, loving, considerate, and for the first time extremely risky and disobedient. (cheers to that Grace)Sam: Skeptic about his cure, deep, loving, sensitive, growing, maturing, evaluating life and it's possibilities for the first time.Isabel: Being Isabel . =) Direct. Without filters, cold detach, consumed, lonely, reaching out, needing to feel something, trying to connect.Cole: Learning, expanding, converting, unlocking, hiding, hating, unmasking from the inside out. Trying to tolerate his own reflection. Moving on. Forgetting.Now mix them all together, shake the bag. TATA. MAGIC.In Linger Maggie's beautiful writing takes you from one narrative to the next, making the story seamless, never boring, always moving forward.I read the book in one sitting. 4 Hours ignoring the world because I couldn't put it down. I was given an ARC by a friend, we both had been counting the days to receive it. Then when we got it I was terrified to read it because I knew after it I had to wait a year to know what's next. Totally worth it... I have 12 months of re-reading to do. =)Linger is an amazing second installment for this trilogy. This second book makes the trilogy's concept stronger, the characters more colorful, human, deep and believable. Maggie takes you for an amazing ride, going through Sam's heart felt emotions, Isabel's constant needs for security, Grace's changes from the inside out, and Cole. Well... You get to meet Cole, and all I have to say is ... What a first impression. Burned out rock start, that will blow your mind... In a good way.I LOVED LINGER... I highly recommend this book for lovers of well written and thought out YA. Paranormal that are tired of reading the same old. This is IT.