King hit the mark with this brick of a novel!I'm a huge Stephen King fan, but even I will admit a great many of his books miss the mark. This one, though extremely long, was a fantastic read. King was really in his groove here. He's written a number of long-ass novels, but this was my favourite of the long ones. (The Stand was, for me, too verbose at times; then again, I chose to read the extended version, perhaps my own fault...)The progression of the novel was done brilliantly, aided with shortish chapters. You move seamlessly from one story-line to the next and don't become confused. I had expected to become exhausted, but King managed to find something interesting in every little section of the novel to keep you on your toes.Unlike some of his other novels, I found the situation realistic, even though it may seem that a gigantic dome over a town may seem unrealistic. I think it's because you sort of forget about the dome for most of the story. Before reading the novel I thought the dome would play a greater, if not central role in the story, but it takes a backseat to the characters' stories, which was a pleasant surprise. King doesn't bog down the story with an explanation as to what has created the dome - he mostly leaves that up to interpretation, and simply gets on with the story.King has himself said that the dome is a metaphor for what is happening in real life on earth on a much larger scale. He simply narrowed it down and focused on one small American community. This book is more than a great piece of fiction because there is a whole other level to it once you taker a step back and analyze it. He's taken a community, put it under a microscope, and left the people to run rampant to see what happens. It's like a great human experiment. The irony of it is that we don't need to conduct an experiment like this, it's already taking place every single day.The characters are what captures this story, for me. It would be easy to lose track of these characters with any other author, but King has made each of them unique and memorable, so you never lose track of them. And there are a lot of them! I also enjoyed how he even reined in the most cruel character, Big Jim. It would have been easy to allow the character to become too unhinged, but he skillfully pulled it back, and at some points you even found yourself a tad bit relating to the damn guy. It's a tribute to King himself to be able to create a villain both cruel and human; as a reader you both love and hate the guy (but mostly hate).If I have one criticism of this novel, it's the ending. I actually think King would have been better off to leave the ending unresolved. I know, that would likely create pandemonium - imagine reading 1000-plus pages and finding out you have no idea what comes of all these characters. But, in some ways, that would have been the perfect way to end this supposed comment on reality. The resolution seemed a bit too far fetched (although certainly of the more believable of the far fetched ideas of King's) and easy, after all that everyone had been through. I'd have enjoyed a cliffhanger. King has been known to usedues ex machinaas a device to get out of some sticky situations (think The Stand, again) and it has appeared here again. Oh well.Regardless, a good novel. Exciting at every turn and, at times, very emotional. King at his best. If you enjoy King and find yourself bogged down by some of his mediocre work, I'd pick this up and give it a go. With the shorter chapters it is even easy to read another book at the same time and not lose track of the story.