I wasn't expecting that much emotion from this story, honestly. I skipped two books and went straight into reading this one, since I got a steal for this hardcover and I don't really regret it, nope. At times I was slightly confused but at the end I caught up on the main things.I liked that we got to see more Wrath and Bella again but they sure had their own problems. But nothing like Rehvenge's problems. Man, that poor man. Reading about his past and how he came to be the sexual slave for his princess is just... I don't think I would love somebody that much and do what he has to do for them, especially since they were to ones to fuck up stuff that lead to this mess. Seriously, that's a hard choice. And don't even get me started on that 'Princess'. I was honestly just waiting for someone to kill her off or to do something that will make her more bearable. I so didn't like her, ugh. At the end I was quite satisfied with the outcome, so all is forgiven. Also, I could have gone without the sex scenes between them but I get why the author chose to include them in the story. It makes the reader feel more than, if they were simply told the act happened and that's that. Seeing it first hand and what he was thinking made me understand him more and this whole situation. I was so glad when he found his nurse. Finally something good in his dark life. But then again, love does have it's ups and downs and Rehvenge got the full ride on that treacherous train. Thankfully everything goes the way it's supposed to and I couldn't be more happier for him and Ehlena.I liked Ehlena, not as much as Rehvenge (for obvious reasons) but still more than the rest of the characters. Some were just downright awful. She has this light around her that I guess captured Rehvenge. She's just so lovely in a way but also fierce. At the end she really fough for him and didn't give up, despite what happened at the club. So definitely thumps up for that.All in all, I liked the story and the new plot. I just wished they would move on from their enemies or at least that something big or new would have happened. In a way it did, since someone got taken but still... I wanted more in some aspects of the story and less in the others. I know, I know...Anyway, still a good read! :)