Never have I been pulled through the entire spectrum of emotion quite as enjoyably as this, with Heller ingeniously switching tones on a dime with a magician's charm. One moment I was laughing like a fool, and the next I was clenching my jaw with agony at the horrors of the war; thankfully for my taste, Heller leaned more on the comedic/optimistic side.Reading Catch-22 was sort of like watching a brilliantly shining coin flipping through a majestic parabola in slow motion, with one side representing laugh-out-loud comedy and the other an intense exploration of the terrors of war, making its way to the ground with the weight of someone's fate resting on whichever side it falls on. But this isn't just a thoughtless experiment. Both tones are equally pleasing and useful to the story.Catch-22 definitely wasn't perfect, but it's close. It reminded me of a Confederacy of Dunces because there were segments that I know a lot of people simply won't laugh at if they don't possess a certain sense of humor. And at times it can be a bit much to wrangle, but if you don't allow the insanity and chaos to consume you, you'll enjoy it thoroughly.I feel like Yossarian and Dunbar represented how my friends and I would have handled the situation--with a sane amount of insanity that'd be necessary in the face of such horror and idiocy. Yossarian has to be the best anti-hero I've come across so far, and the way Heller is able to spin illogical conversations, rules, and situations into logical nonsense and back again is fantastic.I'm rambling now, but this is truly laugh out loud great. Among too many to name, Clevinger's interrogation and the moaning at the briefing were comedic gold. But have no doubt that this is a "thinking person's" book as well. It deals with all of the Big questions of life in some manner. There's plenty of psychology to examine, be it bureaucratic, war, anxiety, etc.; and the final scene with Snowden was incredibly touching.I really cannot say enough about this beauty, so trust me and see for yourself. This was my second attempt to read it after ditching it 30 pages in a year ago. And part of that was due to my having read all of the bashing reviews and avoiding it. But like beauty, it's all in the eye of the beholder, so give it a chance. I'm glad I did. And I think Heller's prose is underrated; there were some sentences there that simply knocked me out. I will definitely read Catch-22 again and recommend to friends. This one pulled me in so well that it's one of the rare books that has genuinely made me wish characters were killed off painfully....fucking Milo.