Because of Winn Dixie was a story about eever lasting friendship but not with a person and a person but with a little girl and her dog. Its not easy living withouta mother now is it? Imagine yourself without your mother in your life... Okay now imagine being raised by a preacher... We have the picture of a motherless preachers daughter and that is what are main character Indian Opel is.... Or we can call her Opal for short.Opal was in the grocery store buying groceries for the preacher whenever people started yelling..."Get that dog!"Opal of course goes after the dog and catches him..."Someone call the pound!" the grocery store owner shoutedOpal seemed alarmed by this because she told the store owner that he was her dog and his name was Winn Dixie.Opal takes her new companian home to show the preacher and at first he did not want a dog. Winn Dixie was not takeing no for an answer because he jumped up on the preacher and started being as cute as possible. Of course the preacher had to of givden in because Winn Dixie stayed that night and then many more nights. Together these two friends made lots more together they befriended Gloria Dump who was an old widow women who people called a witch. They befriended Ms. Franny the librarian who loved to tell fantastic storie, Ottis who was a criminal but now worked at a pet store and gave Opal a job, Sweetie Pie Thomas who always wished that she had a dog just like Winn Dixie, and other people as well.Opal talked Gloria Dump into haveing a party and she invited all of her friends... Did i forget to mention that Winn Dixie was afraid of thunderstorms? That part is very important... Anyways a big thunderstorm hits and the party is moved inside... They had sanwiches, and pickles.... But wait no Winn Dixie! Opal was under the impression that Winn Dixie had runaway whenever he got frightened from the thunderstorm. The preacher and Opal search high and low for hours but no Winn Dixie! Quiting time came and it was time to get back to Glorias and guess who was there..... Winn Dixie! Oal was so relieved that she had found her best friend. Everyone goes home and all is well.Because of Winn Dixie is a great story for all ages... Its sad and its heartwarming! Its a laugh and cry book!Kate DiCamillo did an amazing job plotting this out then useing her marvelous brain to write this...Its not trashyIts not violentIts not raceistIts just sweetBecause of Winn Dixie is an automatic five star rateing!