Cosmosoperates at a massive scale worthy of its lofty title. Carl Sagan, in a companion compendium to his 13-part 1980 TV series of the same name, explains what we know about the universe and the progression of human thought about origins and the nature of reality. We zoom across frames of reference, from the actions of atoms and subatomic particles, to the molecules that store genetic information, to life on this planet, and beyond, to the structure of the universe. We learn about the various explorations of Mars, Venus, Io and Europa, and how we might travel to stars in the future. Along the way, Sagan explains not just what we know, but how we know it, and the fascinating stories of how that information was discovered: often by brilliance or persistence, and sometimes by historical accident or sheer luck. His enthusiasm is readily apparent: infectious and infused with a positive vision for the world and the future. One can only wish that more people on Earth shared Sagan's perspective.The book is punctuated with quotes from various myths of the universe's origins, which serve to remind us how important these questions have always been, but also how poorly equipped we are to access answers through intuition alone. It is the scientific method that has allowed us to cumulatively add new knowledge. He quotes Seneca, from the first century CE: "There will come a time when our descendants will be amazed that we did not know things that are so plain to them... Many discoveries are reserved for ages still to come, when memory of us will have been effaced. Our universe is a sorry little affair unless it has in it something for every age to investigate... Nature does not reveal her mysteries once and for all." Seneca saw clearly, and Sagan shares the stories of thinkers like Pythagoras, Aristarchus, Eratosthenes, Copernicus, Kepler, Huygens, Newton and Einstein and the various contributions they made to our modern understanding.I listened to the audio version, read by LeVar Burton, which is fantastic. I then picked up my physical copy to re-read the quotes and footnotes and see the included charts and illustrations. I highly recommend this for everyone... even if you have a strong understanding of science, it is worth it just to hear Sagan's brilliant and beautifully crafted explanations.