Sticks and stones will break my bones,but words will never hurt me....Well, unless you happen to be in court being tried for witchcraft:"You will listen to the charges against you."A clerk read from a parchment, giving full weight and due to every awful word."________ _____, thou art here accused that not having the fear of God before thine eyes thou hast had familiarity with Satan the grand enemy of God and man, and that by his instigation and help thou hast in a preternatural way afflicted and done harm to the bodies and estates of sundry of His Majesty's reign, in the third year of his majesty's reign, for which by the law of God and the law of the colony, thou deservest to die."Mistress _____, you are accused by Adam Cruff with the following actions. Firstly that you were the familiar friend and companion of the Widow Hannah Tupper of Blackbird Pond, an alleged witch who has within the past week disappeared in a suspicious manner. Such friendship is a lawful test of guilt, inasmuch as it is well known that witchcraft is an art that may be learned and conveyed from one person to another, and that it has often fallen out that a witch, upon dying, leaveth some heir to her witchcraft."Secondly, that you are guilty of actions and works which infer a court with the devil, which have caused illness and death to fall upon many innocent children in this town."...Her head reeling, ___ stood helpless as, one after the other, they rose and made their complaints, these men and women whom she scarcely recognized. The evidence rolled against her like a dark wave.One man's child had cried aloud all night that someone was sticking pins into him. Another child had seen a dark creature with horns at the foot of her bed. ... A man swore he had seen ___ and Goody Tupper dance round a fire in the meadow one moonlit night, and that a great black man, taller than an Indian, had suddenly appeared from nowhere and joined in the dance....Dr. Bulkeley cleared his throat. "In my opinion," he said deliberately, "it is necessary to use the greatest caution in the matter of testimony. Since the unnatural events so far recounted appear to rest in each case upon the word of but one witness, the legality of any one of them is open to question.""It is ridiculous to talk of legality," interrupted Matthew. "There has not one word been spoken that makes sense!"Right, nonsense:lethalnonsense.Supposing you're not in jail, but you wake up one morning and find your reputation has been destroyed in the newspaper. You have achieved pariah status. Life and liberty aren't threatened, not immediately, yet when power is involved, who can predict?If, as Nassim Nicholas Taleb (The Black Swan) says,...our highest currency is respect, what then?So, yes, words matter. If you are going to be a dealer in words, I say get your black belt.Then have fun. Dance--whenever you're not in the stocks.Stocks in Keevil, Wilshire, from the Wikipedia articleBut I have digressed.This book is for adolescents but it's a good read. It's better than most movies, when you get right down to it! If, as with movies, it doesn't quite channel the people of another day and age (despite the period language), you do get some of the flavor--particularly with the above excerpt.What struck me first was the anti-authoritarian flavor, the routine questioning of authority. In the '50s, it would not do to have recommended it in the schools here (in the South). But by the '70s, it was on a school reading list in this very county. I thought my generation worked changes for ourselves, but it seems society followed right along.Worthy of note, though, is that, according to the plot, the "real" witch still was a woman.------------------------------------------------------Personal narrative: When I was around 9 years old (fourth grade), my mother gave me two books: hardbacks but with those flimsy lightweight covers likeNancy Drew. One of them I just loved. It was about two little girls who ran away from an orphanage where they were being kept hungry and otherwise poorly treated, and they found a loving family. (I think the new mother figure made them waffles, and that's where I learned to read the word "recipe.") It had, I'd say, an anti-authoritarian theme, although I'm only saying that in retrospect. All I remember is that over the next year, of all my books, that is the one I constantly reread. Then one day it was gone! My mother had decided that my seeming preoccupation with it wasn't healthy. She had given it away, and it was gone forever.That's the first time I can remember the spark of anger and rebellion seething in my breast.