Man oh man,for a children's book...Lowry certainly didn't pull any punches.Jonas lives in aperfectlyperfect world.Every family has one mother, one father, one girl and one boy.Families always get along, the parents never disagree, no one has any secrets.Everyone contributes to society equally.No one is ever outraged, angry, sad.The life where nothing was ever unexpected. Or inconvenient. Or unusual. The life without colour, pain or past.However what appears perfect on the surface hides afar darker truth.There isn't any negativity in their world but also, there isn't any true happiness or love.All emotions are suppressed, children are taken from "birth mothers," and defected individuals are "released."His society is alive but not living.Jonas is ready to undergo the ceremony of twelves (during which are children born in the same year 'age' to the next level).He will beassigned his role in societybut when he is supposed to accept his new job, he's given the title of Receiver.Something he'snever even heard of.No one really knows what the Receiver does other than the Giver.Soon Jonas learns that the Giver holds thecollected memoriesof the societies long since past and passes it along to the next generation.Jonas is faced withstartling realitiesthat he would've never considered - how beautiful color is, how heartbreaking loss is, and howincredibly wonderful lovecan make a person feel.The worst part of holding the memories is not the pain. It's the loneliness of it. Memories need to be shared.And soon, he comes to a decision. One that wouldirrevocably shift his small world.Of course they needed to care. It was the meaning of everything.I first read this one in fifth grade and whew. It was a doozie.Reread it this year and I'm starting to wonder if kids would like English class a lot more if any of the books were a bit more cheerful....That being said, reading this one as an adultcompletely changed my perspective.I remember liking it, in a slightly apathetic way, in fifth grade.Now, I'm wholly invested in the plot, the characters and the world. What an incredible dystopia!Audiobook CommentsVery well-read by Ron Rifkin. He wasn't a stunning narrator but definitely an enjoyable one. Though, it was a bit disconcerting to hear a grown man's voice for 12-year-old Jonas.Blog|Instagram|Twitter