4.5 starsChaim Potok's writing is quite remarkable! Being a rabbi, Potok's works would explore the lives of Hasidic and Orthodox Jewish subjects and their struggles, but often, these struggles took place internally or within their religious community as opposed to taking place in their exterior world. My Name Is Asher Lev is a prime example of the central character's very own struggle. Within a religion that is grounded, is filled with rules, and requires a lot from its followers, Asher sees a different sense of potential for himself and takes on a passion in art. The way that Potok writes, though, he does so in a way that any Jewish reader can find a sense of connection, while a non-Jewish reader does not only have the ability to connect in an emotional way, but it is written in a way that is accessible and in a way that they develop a greater understanding for Hasidism, their rituals, and how they go about serving their G-d.Asher Lev is a Hasid that was born in 1943 and grows up living with his parents, Aryeh (father) and Rivkeh (mother). Aryeh works serving the Rebbe and frequently travels, feeling that it is best to meet the people he is helping face to face.As Aryeh mentions:"To touch a person's heart, you must see a person's face. One cannot reach a soul through a telephone" (117).In a time and place where it is typical that people text and use their cell phone to the point that it is easier to reach them from a phone than in person, this line was a breath of fresh air and a reason that this can be deemed a modern classic.Aryeh picks up a position in Europe, which creates a great strain between he and his son, one that has already developed on the basis that Asher is an artist that paints what he sees in as honest a way as possible. Aryeh feels art to be pointless and frequently scolds and chides Asher for his actions. Asher's mother does her best to serve both of their needs, as she studies Russian affairs to assist her husband, while providing Asher with the support and material he needs in order to paint, though most of this Asher gets on his own. As time progresses, Asher begins to establish himself as a painter and comes under the wing of Jacob Kahn, which creates a sense of extremity that positions itself on the complete opposite of the spectrum in which his parents would wish. Asher, though, seems to fall in the middle, where he wants to paint things as he sees them, but at the same time eats kosher, prays three times a day, loves his parents, and cares for those within his Hasidic community. This was an aspect of the book that I really liked, for it made Asher a human being that came with complexities for both sides, but yet he certainly had something to offer to the art community.My Name Is Asher Lev is an accomplishment in how it addresses the bridge between religion and art and how it should be perceived and accepted. Being a reader that approaches this objectively as far as religion is concerned, I feel as if Asher is a very determined, but at the same time an individual that means well, even if it causes grief in his heavily religious parents. I like the nature and the fleshing out of each of the characters and how each meant well, despite being firm and passionate in their nature. I like the pacing of the piece, as it flows in a way that we get just enough of what we need to know about a particular event in Asher's life and highlights of other periods of time within. While there were moments in which I wish that information was not withheld (like when Asher Lev says that he has told someone something and yet we do not find out what it is), it was an overall very good piece.I am definitely inclined to read more by Chaim Potok, including the sequel to this novel, The Gift of Asher Lev.