May 13, 2015I saw by the digital panel on the microwave that it was past eleven. I began walking back towards my room with my glass of water. I experienced, as I had at other times in the past, the resignation and relief we are made to feel several weeks before final exams, and final paper due dates of the semester. For a procrastinator, the rational mind knows that the most important thing is to get some study done each day - however, his natural, or shall we say primal instincts are unmatched in their versatility and wit, so the same things happen every time there is still a double-digit number of days between the present and the moment of submission (in every sense of the word). Resignation, that one cannot really change who they are once they have passed their late teens; and relief, that for an undetermined number of days yet, one can wallow in some hours of sheer chillaxing, which will, without exception, be followed by self-loathing and frustration at the world and self.Another evening had passed without a single line typed up in the document titledFinal Essay - Essay Proposal and Annotated Bibliography. I reached out to open my room door, and then, as I stepped inside and let my gaze shift from the glass in my hand to the desk, there occurred the first of the many surprises the night would have in store for me - I was already sitting there, with a book in hand. Then I heard the voice. It was not exactly my own; it was the one I occasionally hear in recordings, unpleasant and without modulation."How odd," it was saying, "we are two yet we are one. But then nothing is odd in dreams.""Then..." I asked fearfully, "all this is a dream?""It is, I am sure, the last night I will get enough sleep to dream before I finish the last exam in two-and-a-half weeks' time." He gestured towards the empty bottle next to the Kleenex tissue box. "You, however, shall have some dreams before you come to this night. What date is it for you?""I'm not sure," I said, rattled. "But today was Wednesday of Week 11.""When in your waking state you reach this night again, yesterday will have been Friday of Week 12. Today is May 23, 2015.""Not that long to wait," I murmured."Not for me," he said shortly. "For me, there's almost no time left. At any moment I may logically deduce that it's too late, at any moment I may feel cold sweat trickle down my back - that this time, I may have really gone too far."I sensed that the theatrical statements were a genuine outburst of self-hate, not some empty stroke of pathos."Who is dreaming whom? I know I am dreaming you - I do not know whether you are dreaming me.""I am the dreamer", I replied, with a touch of defiance."Don't you realise that the first thing to find out is whether there is only one man dreaming, or two men dreaming each other?""I am Junta. I was thirsty and went to get a glass of water.""But I am Junta, and I just finished the bottle of Yamazaki Single Malt Whisky.""But that was supposed to be for when I'd finished the two papers and two exams!"There was a silence, and then he said to me:"Let's try a test. What was the most socially awkward moment this semester?"We stared at each other, and the two of us spoke at once. I know that neither of us spoke the truth.A faint smile lit up the slightly tipsy face. I felt that the smile somehow reflected my own."We've lied to each other," he said, "because we feel that we are two, not one. The truth is that we are two yet we are one."I was beginning to be irritated by this conversation, and I told him so. Then I added: "And you, there going towards Week 13 - are you not going to tell me anything about the ten days between us?""What can I tell you, poor Junta? The misfortunes you are already accustomed to will repeat themselves. You will be left alone to cram. You will pick up a certain book from your to-read-and-owned pile, surf Goodreads every night and try to stay up all night, every night, to reset your sleeping patterns - only to fail in the early morning and end up sleeping until noon, again and again. Night owls are not predators; they are a kind of prey. You will write a book review.""A book review! But I told myself not to until June 10, the day after my last exam!""In Week 12, you will once more skip an important tutorial due to the unbearable sleepiness in the mornings from your currently abominable body clock.""I'm not surprised," I said. "Every procrastinator has a couple of courses where he neglects attendance.""That morning was one of the roads that led me to this night. The others...the humiliation of going through readings from earlier in the semester in the computer lab, the conviction of knowing that it would probably be best to give up reading fiction altogether until after finals, yet reading more and more every day...""I will not be absorbed in a book until the holidays.""You will, though. My words, which are now your present, will one day be but the vaguest memory of a dream."I found myself annoyed by his dogmatic tone, the tone that I myself no doubt used in my group discussions. I was annoyed by the fact that we resembled each other so much and that he was taking advantage of the impunity lent him by the nearness of finals."Are you so sure," I said, to get back at him a bit, "that you might actually fail these courses?""Yes," he replied. "I feel a sort of sweetness and relief I've never felt before. I can't describe it; all words require a shared experience. Why do you seem so annoyed at what I'm saying?""Because we're too much like each other. I loathe your face, which is a caricature of mine, I loathe your voice, which is a mockery of mine, I loathe your pathetic syntax, which is my own.""So do I," he smiled. "Which is why I decided to procrastinate for another ten days."My cat meowed from the corridor."It's the last stretch of the semester," the other man said.He motioned me towards him. His hand sought mine. I stepped back; I was afraid the two hands would merge."The last book I read," he said to me, "was an interesting one - 101 short stories! The first book of nearly a dozen featured in the collection,A Universal History of Iniquity, was rather average, but the works from the next,Ficciones, were impressive. There were such ups and downs throughout, but his unique style has left an indelible impression on me. I think I got a little tired of reading the same prose, the same story structure, the recurring plot elements and the persistently apocryphal anachronisms for 500 pages - I must say that at some moments, I wasn't enjoying it. I suppose this is a necessary evil with short story collections - with some of them, you have some great pieces or ones which stay in your memory, but if you read them all in a short space of time it degrades the enjoyment a little. Perhaps I should have saved it up for the holidays, but maybe it had to be this book that I read before I really grit my teeth and get down to cramming? This book..."He stopped talking; I realised that his time had come. In a way, I disappeared with him - in agitation I reached out towards the hand, but there was no one there anymore.In my future self's hand minutes ago, on the desk lay a pristine copy ofCollected Fictionsby Jorge Luis Borges.Based on the storyAugust 25, 1983, the opening piece of the last book featured in the collection,Shakespeare's Memory.