This book is the complete fiction writings of Argentine author Jorge Luis Borges. My initial disclaimer is that there is no way to do justice to a work of this magnitude in a single review, just as there is no way to do it justice after only a first reading.Anyone who has read Borges will recognize common objects that show up continually in his writings such as labyrinths, gauchos, knife fights, war, jaguars, and books (some of which are fabricated).For those with little knowlege of the history of South America, the 19th Century seemed to be a time of constant political turmoil and warfare. Borges addresses this in several stories. The sheer brutality and nihilism that are portrayed in these stories tend to make the modern reader feel like he has been dropped into the land of post apocalypse, not historical fiction. Obviously these stories give some insight into man's ruminations on mortality at its end.Many of Borges' other tales involve the magic of the intellectual life. This is where things such as labyrinths, dopplegangers, jaguars, mysterious books and secret names of God figure prominently. Overall, the stories that fell into this category were probably my favorites. This is the category that I would include what is probably the most anthologized story in the collection, 'The Garden of Forking Paths'. SOme of these stories do not seem engaging initially, but usually the last couple of paragraphs provide a nice twist or missing puzzle piece that makes it all worthwhile.Essentially, what I think Borges does with his fiction is to present the things that an armchair intellectual thinks about when the mundane, daily world recedes from his vision. I'm not saying this in a negative way, because I greatly enjoyed those visions and believe that there is room for everyone at the dinner table.Notice that I have been very gender bias in this review. The reason for this is that I noticed a distinct lack of women presented throughout most of these works. It's all gauchos, soldiers, and male intellectuals, with very few women and very little in the way of normal social interactions. I don't know, but I would assume that this is because Borges was writing what he knew. Whether this would effect how a female reader views his fiction is a question that I find interesting.Another enlightening moment for me while reading this book were the translation notes by this volume's translator, Andrew Hurley, where he discusses the pitfalls of translation. He reveals that his idea of a translation is the same as Borges', who was also a translator during his career. That idea is that a translator does not produce a replacement for the original work, but instead merely produces another version in a continuing body of work. What this means is that although every translation of a non-English work may have a few subtle problems, they all provide a legitimacy in understanding the original work. Prior to being presented with this idea, I was always suspicious of any translation (as I may have mentioned in a Kafka review some time back). I believe the reason for this had to do with all of the translations that I have read over the years where the translator feels the need to write a Forward that basically said "...the last guy's version sucked, here's my version, which is totally accurate...". With my new found insight, I will now read translations of non-English works in a new way. As for future translators who want to be scornful of their predecessors, I offer the words of a thinkerof the late 20th Century, Rodney King, who said "Can't we all just get along?".