No second thought at all: this book is well-written.It has all the elements of a good novel: tight intriguing plot, show don't tell, memorable characters that you can't help but empathize with and it teaches us a thing or two about being marginalized if not discriminated or alienated because we are different from most of the people we find ourselves with. I am living in the country where I was born but I have two siblings who are now living in the West (older brother in California and older sister in Winnipeg) and I have heard sorry stories about their struggles to fit in when they were starting to live in those far foreign countries. My 78-y/o mother is also living alone in a senior's apartment in National City, CA and she's been there for almost twenty years now and there are more Filipinos in that senior's apartment so she says that sometimes she feels that she is still in the Philippines with the TFG (The Filipino Channel) on whenever she is awake and inside her room.I am sure my brother, sister and my mom felt the same way as the coupleAshokeandAshimiin this first novel by Jhumpa Lahiri (born 1967). Especially since my brother and my sister-in-law have two kids although their first born is called Jonathan (taken from the OT because my brother is deeply religious but not the religious type who quotes biblical verses or maintains a religious blog as a facade to hide an evil lurking inside his sheep's clothing) and not after an Asian writer like Jose Rizal, Haruki Murakami or Mo Yan. In the case of the couple in this book, they named their firstbornGogolfrom the Russian writer Nicholai Gogol (1809-1852) because Ashoke was saved from the train accident while reading a book by that author. Lahiri drew inspiration from her own experience as her real name is Nilanjana Sudeshna and when she was in grade school, her teacher just called her "Jhumpa" as it was easier to pronounce. Lahiri recalled,"I always felt so embarrassed by my name.... You feel like you're causing someone pain just by being who you are."So, Gogol, the main protagonist in the book refuses to understand the simple reason for his name and denies his heritage as an Bengali and when he grows up he constantly struggles to shed anything Indian in himself to the point of ignoring his family. Contrast is provided by Lahiri in the person of Gogol's younger sister namedSoniaas she has an English name thereby breezing through in trying to assimilate with white people. What is in the name? Everything. We use it everyday - in the office we wear our IDs hanging by our necks, our cubicles have our names, our emails have our signatures by default. That's why when my daughter was born, I and my wife really made sure that we chose the best name for her - not too traditional, not old-sounding, not to western but also not after some writers or movie actress.There is almost nothing to dislike about this book. It's just that I did not have any first-hand experience of rearing a child in another country. I had some experiences when I felt discriminated during my trips abroad particularly in the Western countries but they were just some events and did not really humiliated me bigtime. Yet, we don't really need to have similar experiences of our own in order to appreciate good stories, right?Good writing is good writing regardless of whether we could relate to the story or not.