March 5th: Done with first readthrough. It was, in fact, more perfect than expected. I only cried a little bit; mostly afterwards I just have this feeling of intense satisfaction.I will probably still wait to review until I've read through twice; I have a lot that I think I want to say but I haven't fully processed it.August 10: It's obvious to everyone that I'm not gonna get around to a reread for a while, right? Cool. I'll do it eventually, because I have a lot to say about this book, but it'll take a lot more time and energy than I have right now.4 MARCH 2014: IT'S OUT! I'm going to leave this review up as-is until I can replace it with an actual review of the book; as I'm going to be reading it twice (one speed-read before Sanderson comes to my area for a signing, one thorough re-read afterwards) that may be some time.18 December 2013: Review rewritten/reorganized to be more coherent and remove out-of-date info.19 January 2014: Links added for TOR-released chapters. There will be two more chunks posted on the website before the book comes out.21 January 2014: First of those two remaining chunks released at noon EST. I feel pretty comfortable saying we'll see the last set of chapters - the ones Peter Ahlstrom has been hinting at by saying we haven't gotten the 'hooks' yet - at the same time on the 28th.28 January 2014: I was right. Links updated below. Note that now all the chapters we know to expect have been released; this may be the end of preview material.RELEASE DATE:March 4. This is pretty much set at this point.COVER/FLAP DESCRIPTION:can be foundhere. If you're not sure who's who, title explanations are under the spoiler cut:(view spoiler)[the Windrunner is Kaladin, the Lightweaver is Shallan, and the Explorer is Eshonai. We're pretty sure the Bondsmith is Dalinar; I'm hesitant to list that as an absolute ID because I still think he's a strong contender for being a Stoneward. The Assassin, obviously, is Szeth.(hide spoiler)]As of this review update, the version Goodreads has on their page for the book is the old version. There are obviously major changes between the two, but both provide interesting hints towards plot events.READINGS/EXCERPTS:- Eshonai interlude (Audio,part 1(excerpt starts at 12:30),part 2(overlaps somewhat with first part);transcript)- Shallan flashback (Audio,transcript)- Rysn interlude (Writing videos:prewriting,one,two,three,four,five,six,seven,eight,nine,ten,eleven,twelve;transcript)- Taravangian interlude (Excerpt)- Jasnah prologue (Transcript)- Kaladin, chapter 2 (Transcript)- Dalinar flashback (Transcript)- Ym interlude (Transcript)- Lift interlude (Excerpt)- Teeny fragment of conversation involving Dalinar (Excerpt, sort of)-Prologue, Chapter 1, and Chapter 2 at TOR (Excerpt)- Chapters 3-5 at TOR (Excerpt)- Chapters 6, 8, and 9 at TOR (Excerpt)- Chapters 10, 12, 14, and Interlude I-1 at TOR (Excerpt; note that Ch. 10 and Interlude I-1 were previously released in audio as Red Carpet, Once White and the Eshonai Interlude; however, there have been changes in the final versions.)As of right now, everything released via the Steelhunt is also on this list, so if you don't have a code you're not missing anything. One note: Everything marked 'excerpt' can be considered correct re: spelling and grammar, because it comes from an official source. Anything marked 'transcript' may have misspelled names or inaccurate punctuation. Obviously, any and all of these portions are subject to change before the final version.