The Stormlight Archive series is probably my favourite fantasy series of the lot. It has everything I want in a story. Good worldbuilding, cool magic, great characters, and a fast paced action packed plot that has a little bit of everything.The story held up well during this reread of mine and although I lost the impact of most of the shock twists and turns and some of the tension of the action scenes I was still fully engaged by the story and the characters and lot in the awesomeness that is the Stormlight world!As far as the characters go I felt like Dalinar had a fantastic outing. Dalinar is definitely one of my favourite Sanderson heroes. I was all set to add Adolin to the list of characters who had a fantastic second book but that twist right at the end ruined that. I was a little lukewarm on Adolin in Way of Kings but I felt he showed good growth over the course of this instalment and by the (near) end of this he had made a fan of me. The late twist has totally changed how I view him and how I feel about him overall in this book.Shallan and Kaladin had super exciting story arcs and both got to show off their new powers plenty of times so reading their POV segments was always good but both did have moments where they managed to annoy me. Shockingly Kaladin was more to blame in that regard than Shallan. I love the guy but he can be so gloomy at times and since some of his choices were bad I spent a bunch of time worrying about Syl, another Stormlight favourite of mine!We got a bunch of secondary POV characters, mostly through the interludes, and I liked the extra depth this offered to the world. The stand-out character was Taravangian. He is a fascinating guy and his story is shaping up to be as interesting as that of the first books stand-out secondary character, Szeth. Speaking about Szeth, I've gone off the guy a bit. His fanaticism is beginning to annoy me though his appearances continue to provide super intense and exciting moments as he is just so good at his job! I'm tempted to nominate(view spoiler)[Nightblood(hide spoiler)]as best secondary character but with only the few words to his credit I'll refrain from that for now.I'm not keen on the developing love triangle between(view spoiler)[Shallan, Adolin, and Kaladin. I'm on the Kaladin/Syl ship already so I'm not keen on the idea of Shallan rocking the boat. Plus I quite like her with Adolin. I have a feeling Sanderson himself is leaning towards Kaladin and Shallan as the pairing or possibly Shallan not being interested enough in either guy!(hide spoiler)]All in all this was a fantastic read and my reread has me super hyped for Oathbringer.Rating: 5 stars.Audio Note: This time around I went with the Graphic Audio. I love the regular audio team of Kramer and Reading but even they cannot compete with the excellent job done by the GA team. The full cast, the sound effects, and the dramatic music really do wonders in enhancing an already awesome story!