4ish stars.I should start by saying that this heifer took me right around ten months to finish with several periods of backburner status. Not that it wasn't good (the second half especially) but because it's such a big commitment! 1000+ pages! If my relationships with books were compared to romantic relationships, I'd be considered a huge hussy.Bookxual Profile:1) I don't have the kind of patience a long book requires. A book with 500 pages isreallypushing it for me. I'm more of a 450maxkind of guy with an average page count closer to 325.2) I'm not the kind of person who can sit down and finish a book. I can typically read for about 30-60 minutes straight before my brain fritzes and my body twitches and I have to get up and do something else. It's a rough existence for someone who loves reading so much.3) At any given time I am reading at least three books. One in print, one ebook, one on audio.At least.I can't read the same book for too long, regardless of how much I love it, without having a breakdown and switching to another book on the roster.4) I need the immediate gratification of seeing how much progress I've made after each reading session and how many fewer pages I have left until I'm done.Basically I'm a selfish, inconsiderate reading douchebag with serious commitment issues who has no respect for the books I read. But I still love them...?Based on all of that, the fact that I stuck around long enough to finishThe Way of Kingsis a miracle already. I still don't know how I did it again with WoR. Especially considering how I wasn't even that into the first half of this book.This was kind of my "eh, why not" change-up audiobook that I would occasionaly space out to while listening and going for a run. This resulted in a six-month long hiatus. While I was waiting for an audiobook to become available from my library holds list, I decided to give this old gal a booty call and pick up where I left off. Finally at around the 24 hour mark (24 hours!) or half way, I became really interested. I started connecting with the characters more and became curious about what was going on and how things would play out. By the end I was pretty well hooked.Long story short- I still have issues with the series. I know I'm in a vast minority but here they are:1) For such a mature book with so many dark themes, it's still the kind of book a middle-schooler would love. I know a lot of people who like itbecauseof that, but I would have preferred this to be a bit more dark and twisted.2) Only a handful of characterizations are deep enough to be fascinating.3) I think there's a lot of filler and unnecessary length all in the name ofepic. Gotta hit that 1000 page quota.4) And, let's be honest, am I really supposed to think Shallan is clever?! Most of her jokes are the equivalent of "I know you are but what am I?" and "You smell bad tee hee." One of the few legitimately funny parts was when she was pretending to be a Horneater.But! Despite all of this, I see the upside. I see more pros than cons. I see afuturewith the Stormlight Archives and I'm finally willing to settle down for the long haul and commit. Who knew?