One of the best sci-fi that I've read so far.A Canticle for Leibowitzis composed of three parts. In between each part is a period of 6 centuries. This reminded me of Roberto Bolano's2666(5 stars) that I recently read and found amazing. I am not sure whether Bolano got the idea from here but if it was a coincidence then there must be something happening around that time. Creepy. This first part,Fiat Homoor "Let There Be Man" happens 6 centuries from the 20th century. This book, the only one by Walter M. Miller, Jr, was first published in 1960. He used to be a aircraft pilot during World War II and was part of the Allied forces that bombed an ancient monastery in Italy. That experience inspired him to write this part of the novel. The main character in this part isBrother Franciswho has found the entrance to the ancient fallout center of the mysterious order founded by the blessedIsaac Edward Leibowitzduring the 20th century. Blessed Leibowitz used to work as an engineer before the nuclear war. Prior to hiding in that shelter, he founded the Order of Liebowitz whose main purpose was to preserve the religious artifacts that had become meaningless to men.The second part,Fiat Luxor "Let There Be Light" happens after another 6 centuries or to be exact in 3174. The setting is in the same mysterious shelter now turned into an abbey where a brilliant engineer,Brother Kornhoerhas just discovered a fancy but powerful lamp. The said lamp becomes the focal point for the inter-state wars involving religious fanatics that resulted to executions and excommunications. In the part, religion is back and plays a big role in running the state.The third part,Fiat Voluntas Tuaor "Let Your Will Be Done" happens after another 6 centuries or in 3781 to be exact. The nuclear war is back but this time the fight has moved outside Earth. The battle for supremacy between the two world's superpowers, Asian conglomerates calledAsian Coalition(is Philippines part of this, no mention in the book) andAtlantic Confederacy.The shelter in the first that turned into an abbey in the second parts of this book still exists but it is ultra-modern and has more sophisticated weapons. In this part, the fight of dominion over how to rule the state between church and government reached its highest point and is resolved at the end of the story.The stories are all mind-boggling and the telling is exceptionally brilliant. Well, compared to the other sci-fi novels that I've read so far. It is circular in pattern because of the re-appearance of some incidents or elements (like the nuclear war) or the issue on the separation between church and state. However, unlike "Finnegans Wake" by James Joyce or "Cloud Atlas" by David Mitchell, the story or the narration does not literally go back to where it started.I enjoyed this book. If you can tolerate reading at least one sci-fi, go for this book. Definitely satisfying.