***BEFORE READINGOH. MY. GOD I THINK I HAVE MADE A MIRACULOUS DISCOVERY!So, I was re-reading Cinder when I came upon the part where Dr. Erland is explaining why he hates the Queen so much and it's because his daughter-who is a shell- was supposedly murdered by the Queen. His daughters name is Crescent Moon.CRESCENT MOON. CRESCENT SHORT FOR CRESS BY ANY CHANCE!That was not my only discovery but, we all know that the 4th book called Winter will be about Snow White. Does anyone else remember in the beginning where Cinder was talking about all the rumors about the Queen and said"They said she forced her stepdaughter to mutilate her own face because, at the sweet age of thirteen, she had become more beautiful than the jealous queen could stand" MIRROR MIRROR ON THE WALL WHOSE THE FAIREST OF THEM ALL? .I may be wrong this is just a guess***AFTER READINGOh my ... This book was just am-.... Characters were absolutely incre- .... Plot was spot o-....Seriously I don't even know where to begin this review for this undeniable master piece of a novel. For one, it totally lived up to every single one of my expectations which was pretty surprising since I had such high expectations; there's nothing worse then hyping up a novel/movie/event so much that when you do read/watch/go to it , it's all a bit anti climatic because of all these impractical hopes you had. So when I did read Cress I was in absolute awe on how much I loved it.The characters were all so dearly loveable and each one of them had a clear distinct personality. Thus when reading all the different point of views you could clearly distinguish a unique voice making each chapter a refreshing breath of new air. As for the new characters Cress was a brilliant actress in the making and captured the dreamer inside of us all perfectly. I particularly adored how Meyer made(view spoiler)[ Cress totally idealize Thorne. Took away the fabricated fascination. Yet, she still had the ability to make Thorne perfectly imperfect.(hide spoiler)]I even loved to hate Levanna and I just cant wait for the next installment where we get to learn more of her back story. That being said can we all talk about that little sneak peek we got on(view spoiler)[Winters character. I totally can't wait to read more about her with hercaptivating"crazy" talk of walls bleeding and describing smiles as sunrises. Can it just be 2015 already?(hide spoiler)]I could literally write an essay on every single character on why their magnificent and why I love them but... that would make this review a bit dull and mundane so I'll leave the essay writing for English.The plot was fast paced with not a dull moment to be seen. It was filled with adventure: treks through the dessert, hopeless situations,(not so) damsels in distress, battles and small dashes of romance that spontaneously made me have a stupid, goofy grin.All in all Cress was a steller novel filled with twists and turns and the power to enchant readers reminding them of the oh so familiar fairytale: Rapunzel.Me reading all the swoon worthy romance bits*cough cough Cinder and Kai cough cough*Me reading everything else(Also addressing my prediction(view spoiler)[ YES! YES! YES! YES! I TOTALLY KNEW IT! *breaks out into a little happy dance* Also another cool bit of trivia I saw off tumblr is that you can even see the little Cresent in the 'C' of Cress. There's so much foreshadowing in this series. Ugh. I love it. I seriously love the Lunar Chronicles so much! And thanks again to everyone with their comments regarding the prediction and especially a shout out to the ones who called me a 'genius'. The real 'genius' is obviously Marissa Meyer herself and calling me one is far off from the truth however, it is one hell of an ego boost ;) So thanks again!(hide spoiler)]Side note: I've received a few messages concerning the prediction part of my review - due to it actually becoming true I should mark it as a spoiler. Many apologies in advance for unintentionally spoiling Cress. I seriously made that prediction a long, long, LONG time ago ... like before Scarlet even came out and never thought about it from the perspective of fresh eyes. So once again, sorry.