Actual Rating 4.5I really, really enjoyed this book. I can't quite put my finger on it but there is something so special with The Lunar Chronicles series. I love the ability thatMarissa Meyeris able to do such a wonderful job in developing characters throughout the series. Cinder was my first read after a bit of a book flump and I thought it was okay, I read Scarlet and fell in love, and now I've read Cress i'm already itching to read Winter.To begin with I didn't really know what to think about this book, particularly when it was Cress and Thorne walking in a dessert, I thought here we go, lots of filler scenes. I was completely wrong, it was a sense of building a relationship between the two. I don't know how, but every relationship in this series makes me swoon so much. Kai and Cinder, Wolf and Scarlett and now Cress and Thorne (kind of). I really enjoyed the coming together of everything, I think it's good when a book has you worried for the characters and you're genuinely concerned for them, even if they are a loveable android!What did I think of the characters this time around?Cinder is becoming an absolute powerhouse, I liked that she started to believe in herself more, came up with some pretty good plans. Still cares for everyone around her, and judges her own character at times. I am routing for her and Kai to become rulers together and just yanno, everything to end "happily ever after" for her! She needs something nice in her life!I feltsosorry for Kai, he'd done so much for his country just to be treated so poorly. loved his relationship Torin, I thought it was just so lovely. I'm hoping to see a lot more of Kai in the next book!Thorne and Cress.Oh. My. God.I cannot. I literally loved this pairing together. Cress is extremely quirky, and when things go wrong she has to make things up in her mind to try and make herself feel a bit better. My personal favourite was Wolf the bodyguard... ANYWAY. So I don't think we'd really seen a lot of Thorne in the previous book, he amused me before, but in this there is just so much more that that. He's not what you think he's like. I can honestly say I swooned quite a bit, particularly when he'd do the little things, like reach out for Cress or pull her in closer. It just melted me entirely.Poor WolfI felt so sorry for him in Scarlet, I loved them in the previous book, but obviously things happened in this book that altered them. I'm hoping that they get more chapters in the next book. I missed Scarlet, and I kind of didn't like the fact that wolf was either just zoned out, or being controlled.I want to know more aboutJacinI can't really comment on him, he's quite mysterious, and I'm pretty sure I'll be seeing more of him in Winter.Is it bad how much I like Levana and Sybil as the bad Characters? They're so awful it's good! I am also very very intrigued as to what Levanaactuallylooks like. Is it bad I also cheered with the whole Sybil scenario?What did I like?- ALL OF THE RELATIONSHIPS- When Cinder returned to her "home"- The uprising in Farafrah- Dr Erland, I honestly love his character, I can't write about him otherwise I'll say something I shouldn't.- The fact I want to know more about Jacin, I always like a mysterious character.- The coming together of the break in- IKO, why are you so adorable?!- Thorne being called Master... NO IT'S CAPTAIN!What I didn't really like?- Like I said my only thing I didn't really like was that Wolf was kind of a "used" character, I don't really know how else to word it.I'm FINALLY onto the last book, Winter... I'm coming for you!Reviews:Cinder- 4Scarlet- 4.5Cress - 4.5Winter- 5