WrensReads Review:Anything I say about this book is going to do it an injustice. It was pure, it was good, it was heartbreaking and it was they most enjoyable read I have had in a long time.So basically what you should do is take everything I say and just times it by a big fat ten.Holy crap, okay. So the book starts out with a big bang.The gang (you know, Cinder, Scarlet, Wolf, Thorne and Iko) contacts Cress and realize she is a huge asset to their team because A: She's the one that has been hiding their spaceship from satellites and such, B: she knows their location and has been tracking them this whole time, C: She knows all about anything they have ever done that was recorded or stored somewhere, and D: She knows all about the Queen's plans, totally geeky when it comes to computer/tablet/portscreen/whatever it's technology.So they venture to go and rescue the girl with really long hair from her satellite in the sky.And the whole time everyone is like, "howweird,odd,fragile,socially awkward,helpless,annoying,have I said weird yet,obnoxious,in-need-of-a-straight-jacket,specialis she going to be?"Well, let me tell you a little about our littleCresent Moon Darnel.01. She's easily the cutest thing to ever live, Lunar, Shell or human or android or whatever else lives, walks, swims, flies or waddles.02. I'm not sure who decided to portray all Rapunzel-like characters as adorable and cute and innocent and hilarious but I absolutely love it and it fits Cressto a T.03.She is dead seton the fact that her and Thorne are soulmates and are going to have an epic romance because he is so selfless and honorable and wonderful and gorgeous and pure-hearted (please stop laughing, let her live in her fantasy world). He has gorgeous and wonderful going for him though, let's all be honest. Their relationship is a little like this:After a few unfortunate events, the group gets separated: Cindy with Wolf and Jacin (huh? who are you?I'm probably not going to explain), Scarlet... er... elsewhere, and Cress with her beloved blind Thorne.WHAT HE IS BLIND?Yah, I'm probably not going to explain that either.Anyway, a lot of the people above get trapped in the desert. I am just going to say it now: it's a very depressing read for the, er, group that gets trapped in the desert. They are down on rations, the sun is laughing at their predicament, and someone lost their shoes in the, errrr, adventure to the desert.It's all kind of horrifying and sad and not something I ever want to put my heart through again. I read that without spoilers and I can tell you I had to count my inhales and exhales I was so nervous.HOW ELSE AM I SUPPOSE TO ACT WHEN ALL MY LOVES ARE WANTED BY ALL THE CROWNS IN THE NEAR SPACE AND PLANETS AND MOONS?Oh! Oh! Oh! I forgot to mention that the "evil mother" in this isMistress Sybil. AND GUYS, she isliterally the worst.I'm pretty sure I pulled out all my hair when her name was on the page. She ruins everything. I, UGH. No. Onto happier thoughts.Some small things that I loved that doesn't give anything away:01. Crescent's LOVE for Earth!02. That this epic moment does happen!even though it isn't in an epic way, butttt.03. Throne &amp; Cress because they are soSHIPPEDI need them toSAILinto theSUNSET04. How helpful Cress is to help these people she doesn't even know (well, she knows about them, but she doesn't really know them, you know?).She literally fits so well with their team. The needs they need, she has. And she is so willing to help because she finally has a purpose in life!05. Cress... can I just love Cress?There are huge reveals, there are deaths, there are a lot of laughs, there is action, there is romance and there are three, beautiful stories woven into one huge, wonderful masterpiece.Don't worry though, we are getting our fourth.Because what do a [lunar] mechanic, [human] a pilot and a [shell] computer geek need to defeat an evil queen?her step-daughter, the [mad] princess.WrensReads|Goodreads|Twitter|Instagram