Book Review4+ out of 5 stars forDeath on the Nile, a Hercule Poirot mystery published in 1937 byAgatha Christie. This is one of Christie's better mysteries, not because of the complexity in the mystery but due to the characters she creates. No one is who they appear to be on this ship, and they are all trapped together. It's nearly 100 years ago, so how could anyone get on or off the boat without the Captain or the rest of the staff in the know? (No, I'm not giving away a spoiler). Poirot is on vacation this time, and he is trying not to work. But when someone turns up dead, he has no choice but to solve this crime. People using different names, a killer trapped with little escape... seems easy to figure out. Add in a bit of archaeological history and all the wonderful things Christie learned on her own Egyptian trips, this is a culture storm waiting to explode. Poirot is at his best, which is usually his most annoying, of times. The upper-class and lower-class exploration in this novel crosses lines many times, as does the affairs or confusion over who is or was previously with someone else romantically. So many clues, so much fun to guess. And the film adaption does a great job at capturing the different personalities. Great one for a beginner to the series!About MeFor those new to me or my reviews... here's the scoop: I read A LOT. I write A LOT. And now I blog A LOT. First the book review goes on Goodreads, and then I send it on over to my WordPress blog athttps://thisismytruthnow.com, where you'll also find TV &amp; Film reviews, the revealing and introspective 365 Daily Challenge and lots of blogging about places I've visited all over the world. And you can find all my social media profiles to get the details on the who/what/when/where and my pictures. Leave a comment and let me know what you think. Vote in the poll and ratings. Thanks for stopping by.Note: All written content is my original creation and copyrighted to me, but the graphics and images were linked from other sites and belong to them. Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544][polldaddy poll=9719251]