"'What a lot of enemies you must make, Linnet,''Enemies?' Linnet looked surprised.'Enemies, my sweet. You're so devastatingly efficient.'Linnet laughed.'Why, I haven't got an enemy in the world.'"Linnet Ridgeway has it all: money, youth, fame and beauty. What she does not have, she finds a way to get and usually succeeds. When her friend Jaqueline de Belleforte asks Linnet to give her fiance, Simon Doyle, a job Linnet does. However, she takes it a step further and steals Doyle away from Jaqueline and marries him herself. The couple go on their honeymoon on a cruise on the Nile, and Jaqueline is also on board the steamer. When Linnet is found dead in her cabin, Hercule Poirot, who is supposed to be on holiday during this cruise, investigates and finds that he has no shortage of suspects or motives as Linnet made plenty of enemies along the way.Another great book by Christie! I absolutely love it!Originally published in 1937, 'Death on the Nile' is the 17th book in the Poirot series, and in my opinion, one of the best. Just like ' Murder on the Orient Express' and 'Then There Were None', a murder is commited on a standstill crime scene and the murderer has to be one of the passengers. Linnet Doyle, formerly Ridgeway, is on board the steamer that is cruising the Nile with her new husband Simon. On board is also Jaqueline, Simon's ex-fiance and Linnet's former friend. As the steamer moves along the Nile, Linnet is found dead, shot in the head, in her cabin. Naturally suspicion falls on Jaqueline first but with a varied and colorful slew of passengers, she is not the only one with motive. As Poirot investigates, he sees that many onboard have a grudge against Linnet and everyone has something to hide. With such a number of suspects, I admire the way in whch Christie gives all her characters complex backstories and made them memorable. I love the way in which the pace build up. Everything from the premise and setting to the tone and characterization was on point. I thoroughly was entertained and mesmerized by this book and did not want it to end. Its brilliant. And the reveal? I was not expecting that at all. As per usual, Dame Christie has not dissapointed me. Highly recommended!