I first read this story inManga forma few years ago (one of only two manga series I've enjoyed) and I quickly became addicted to these characters and their individual stories. Whilst readingBattle Royale, you go on an intense journey into the minds of nearly all 42 students and discover what it is about them that enables normal high school kids to kill their classmates - or decide not to.I'd recommend reading the manga before or instead of the novel for a few reasons. For one, it makes it a lot easier to keep up with all the similar sounding names when you have a face to put to it. For another thing, you don't have to struggle through a translation that isn't too smooth. I felt there were times during the novel where the sentences were disjointed and/or abrupt, it wasn't a huge problem for me but I know it will annoy some other readers more.Though I appreciate that the violence inBattle Royalemight make some readers queasy, I never found it to be gratuitous like a lot of other people did. It's not unrealistic that when people are put into a situation of great fear and distrust they will go to any lengths to survive. It's biological. If you're in a kill or be killed situation, then nine times out of ten you will choose your own life. And if you're in a situation where someone with a gun may or may not be trying to kill you, are you going to ask questions first and risk getting your head blown off? Maybe. But you're either braver or sillier than most, then.I am going to compare this toThe Hunger Games, though not because I want to make a statement about how Collins plagiarised - she probably didn't and, even if she did, no one's going to prove it either way. Their similarities just make them good books to use for a comparison: fight to the death, teenagers, isolated arena, etc.The Hunger Games, as I'm sure you all know, focuses on Katniss and her life, the other characters - both good and bad - are seen solely through her eyes. InBattle Royale, the perspective changes frequently (I liked it but it may infuriate some) and looks at many different types of people.Though both stories are considered dystopias, I thinkThe Hunger Games' world is more developed and easier to picture as a reality. I have a very clear idea in my mind of the Capitol and the districts, I don't have such a vivid image of this oppressive Japanese state... though I don't really think that's the point. For me,Battle Royaleis a much more psychological story, it looks into the dark depths of the human mind and doesn't censor anything it finds. I think it's more frightening because of the collars that can be made to explode at any time, because of the time limit set on the players, and because all the participants are classmates. I also felt there was a greater sense of urgency.On the other hand, I thinkThe Hunger Gamesis a more emotional read. BR is an interesting exploration of the human mind, I liked finding out why the students were able to do what they did, but the only death that really filled me with regret was(view spoiler)[Shinji Mimura(hide spoiler)]and that was only a touch. As much as I like BR, it does seem a little like a case study at times.The Hunger Games' strength is that it is the opposite of this; you really care about Katniss and what she does for her sister, the choices she makes affect the reader emotionally instead of just being something to scrutinize.Maybe they were built on the same ideas, but both novels do something very different and I appreciate them equally. My biggest criticism ofBattle Royaleis Shuya - the good guy. He is the weak link in a great novel. Why? Because he's so goddamn perfect. Good-looking. Popular. Talented in sports and music. Kind. Self-sacrificing. I just don't like heroes, give me someone who reeks of humanity any day over the one who seems unnaturally above it all.Final note: About what I said at the start - if you thought the novel had too much graphic violence, ignore my recommendation for the manga. If you don't like reading about it, I'm certain you won't want to look at it.