First off, if you go shopping forBattle Royalebased on my review, you need to look forBattle Royale: Remastered. I stayed away from this book for years because of reviews from friends that said the translation was broken. All too often, translations are rushed due to the piece's success in the original language or an upcoming film adaptation. Recent fuckery would include the first Stieg Larsson book,The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, which remains one of the worst translations I've set eyes on. Have I read the original Swedish? No. But there were clear moments when I could tell the translator could not be bothered to do his job correctly. For more info on that, read my reviewHERE. I also cannot speak to the quality of the original Japanese text. I can only speak toward this particular version, a version someone on Goodreads decided to combine with the original translation, because reasons. Suffice it to say,Battle RoyaleandBattle Royale: Remasteredare not the same book. This version had five typos stretched over 624 pages (the final 20+ pages of the book is an interview with the author that I didn't bother to read). That's pretty fucking good, if you ask me. I've seen more than that in traditionally-published American-English books. Anyfuck, on with the review.I loved almost everything about this book. It's full of blood and guts and betrayal and love and emotionless killers and endearing characters. Pretty much everything I look for in my fiction occurred in this novel. I was constantly amazed at the variety of deaths and situations in which those deaths happened. We have misunderstandings, suicides, cold-blooded murder, manslaughter, murder in self defense, and the list goes on. If you're a gorehound, you'll likely enjoy this experience.What really shocked me was the depth of character development showcased herein. I was expecting a bunch of death and destruction and not much else. And while I received plenty of that, I also got a healthy dose of character writing. The author takes the time to thoroughly establish even the smallest role. I think the least amount of time he spends developing a character is the absolutely hilarious death of the anime fan near the end of the book. The scene lasts all of three pages, but it's one of the more memorable deaths of the book because the author put forth the effort to make the scene feel more important than it was.I dug the hell out of this hunk of book, but it is not without its faults. The ending is sillier than an erection on a nun. Everything is tied up far too perfectly, damn near creating a parody which mocks the bleak nature of the previous 600 pages. I wish it had ended on the mountain, but this is not my book. Besides, people like happy endings. Although I think it's been established time and time again that I am not most people. I am perfectly happy with everyone dying. I dig it when favorite characters bite the dust. The reason for this is, I expect the heroes to live because that's what most people want. Because of that, most fiction is predictable. You don't have to read a majority of popular novels to the end these days due to the expectation and delivery of the same people surviving and the same villains being dispatched in all the same fashion. There's nothing wrong with the cookie-cutter bullshit floating on the top of bestsellers lists, but there's not much right with them either. Some people read for escape, and that's cool. You do you. But there are some who read to be challenged, both intellectually and emotionally. I reside somewhere in the middle, and for the most part, this book checks both boxes: challenging escapism. Until the end. Yeah, the ending sucks. Taking a star away for that predictable-ass shit.In summation: If you dig books likeThe Hunger GamesandThe Running ManandThe Lottery, you'll likely dig this massive motherfucker. I was never bored during its 624-page runtime, but I'm special. I like character development and multiple story arcs. If you prefer your fiction condensed to a few major players, you'll likely spend the majority of this novel confused, especially if you have trouble keeping track of non-Anglo-Saxon names.Final Judgment: The journey rocks; the destination, not so much.