There's room at the top they're telling you stillbut first you must learn how to smile as you killif you want to be like the folks in the hillThe above lyrics written by John Lennon kept playing in my head over and over while readingBattle Royaleand it's really no wonder. A bunch of 15-year-old students are thrown into an island with the mission to kill each other until only one remains. This is actually the predecessor of all the similar books and movies that have been popping out the last couple of decades (seeThe Hunger Games). Set in a dystopian Japan,Battle Royaleis not only a ridiculously gripping thriller but also a brilliant specimen of the dystopian genre, with all the social commentary that comes with it. Brilliant I say, although this doesn't mean it's without flaws.First of all, the particular translation is poor and the reason for most of the writing issues. Besides that, due to the nature of the story, there were bound to be a few improbabilities and some far-fetched details that, in my humble opinion, weren't enough to destroy the experience. Nonetheless, they were enough to make me hold back a star. That said, I found the execution, as a whole, brilliant. Greatly written action, twists and gore without end. Although it's famous for the gore, however, there's also great depth to the characters. A few pages of background are dedicated even to the ones that are killed off quickly, which makes the uneasiness even bigger. The relationships between the students are also well crafted. There are friendships, betrayals, romance, unrequited love, you name it. Pretty much everything there is in a teenage universe. Every single character is treated with respect by the author and nothing is done swiftly. What else could one ask for?Battle Royalewas also adapted into a movie in 2000 whose further success ended all governmental controversy that had broken out due to the themes described in the book. It should be noted that said film is one of Quentin Tarantino's favorites.A great novel which should have been an example for the west and not something to cheaply rip off. Although I liked the first ofThe Hunger Gamesseries,Battle Royalemakes me want to go back and throw it in the one-star pit once and for all.