I will try to keep this from becoming a long review. I'd like to say up front that I do recommend this book. I'll have some more detailed things to say throughout concerning the actual writing, plot, characters and so on but on the whole, good book.I got the print version of this book from the library and later purchased the audio from Audible. Both are good versions and I don't think you'll miss anything no matter which version of it you choose to go with. It starts off a little slowly but that doesn't last long. Within a few pages you launch into the main story and from there on this is a fast bloody ride with some teen angst and self discovery thrown in.I suppose (as has been demonstrated in other reviews and comments) the comparison between this novel andThe Hunger Gamesis inescapable. There is the obvious similarity however I can also see a certain congruity withLord of the Fliesand also1984. However...the one everyone talks about is Hunger Games. I'd say that simply as a book this is superior. Some may be a bit stymied by some of the actual text but that is I think more translation difficulties than actual storytelling. A few of the idioms seem to have been translated directly into English and that can lead to a few, "huh?" moments. Still it doesn't hurt the novel. The construction here is very well done drawing you in and holding you. Different characters (students) are introduced and detailed to different extents. This actually works very well.(view spoiler)[ (I admit here that I'm not going to try to give you many of the Japanese names as I was lucky to be able to follow them in the book. Sorry, not PC I know. I suppose that Asians probably have the same trouble with western names). You get to know enough about some students (other than the 3 protagonists that is) to start to care (as in the computer prodigy or the ones who want to try and save everyone), some to understand enough to "almost" forgive (possibly as with the "sexy sociopath Mitsuko Souma for example). Then there's the psychopath (Kazuo) about who we get to know virtually nothing. We see things from the point of view of many of these kids trapped in their kill or be killed situation including Mitsuko Souma who is deadly and plays the game, but Kazuo remains a shadowy figure who shows up throughout the story and kills..and kills, and kills.(hide spoiler)]So, you'll see some apparently clumsy sentence structure here and a few apparently unwieldy metaphors and similes but as I said, this seems to be more from translation problems not authorship problems. The book itself ison the wholeI think better (as I said before) than Hunger Games, it makes it's point tells a story with a nice twist at the end and doesn't pull punches.This one I can recommend.