I'm afraid I'm going to end up saying most of exactly the same things as I said aboutA Passage to India, but I guess this one gets an extra star? I'm not sure if that's completely fair, but I rather think I might be mellowing in my old age - I'm starting to give stars for enjoyment. I hear that's what one ages.So firstly, I was a little bit surprised to find myself liking this book at all, because Forster is rather snotty and British, and he does have a tendency to wax lyrical about the meaning of life and such in a way that, if I stopped to think about it, I'm sure I would find rather pretentious - though I found this much more grating inA Passage to India. What he is, however,exceptionallygood at, and I wish he'd stick with it a bit more, is the wonderful observation of small things: of character, of setting, of habit.This young man had been 'had' in the past - badly, perhaps overwhelmingly - and now most of his energies went in defending himself against the unknown. But this afternoon - perhaps on account of music - he perceived that one must slack off occasionally, or what was the good of being alive? Wickham Place, though a risk, was as safe as most things, and he would risk it.Away she hurried, not beautiful, not supremely brilliant, but filled with something that took the place of both qualities - something best described as a profound vivacity, a continual and sincere response to all that she encountered in her path through life.Her thought drew being from the obscure borderland. She could not explain in so many words, but she felt that those who prepare for all the emergencies of life beforehand may equip themselves at the expense of joy.How marvellous! Perfection itself, that quote.But the real reason, and the root of all reason, that I possess any fondness for Forster at all, is that he reminds me of Virginia Woolf. He's not as good, because Woolf sounds like herself all the time and Forster does only some of the time. But he doestry. Only connect! Those words, and that sentiment, could have come from the mind of the master herself. And since I see Elizabeth doesn't seem to have reviewed this book, I suppose I'm obliged to mentionTo the Lighthouse. Here's the key:Mrs Wilcox = Mrs RamsayHowards End = the house (can't remember if it had a name)Those two are the key, though to be honest the direct correspondence finishes with Mrs Wilcox/Ramsay. Howards End overlaps a little with Wickham Place, and to an extent with all houses or homes or dwellings, which is one of the themes they both deal with rather beautifully. In fact, there's a passage about the demise of the Wickham place which is so incredibly reminiscent of the passage about the decay of the house inTo the Lighthousethat I can't help but wonder if one was directly modelled on the other.(Actually, the other thing Howards End [the house itself, not the book:] reminded me of is the cherry orchard in Chekhov's play of the same name. Similar symbolic value - times changing, &amp;c., and of similar importance in the characters' lives.)And of course Woolf and Forster are writing about the same themes, but I couldn't help feeling a bit cynical about Forster dealing with the struggle of women to gain independence, mentally, financially, socially, emotionally, because, I think though I'm not sure, I couldn't help but wonder the whole time if he was actually writing about homosexuality. I did think he did a better job of representing women here than he did of representing Indians inA Passage to India, because a fair bit of imperialism still managed to get through in that. Trouble is, he's not exactlysubtle, is he? When Margaret says "She knew that Henry was not so much confessing his soul as pointing out the gulf between the male soul and the female" and "As a handsome young man, [the butler:] was faintly attractive to her as a woman... yet the skies would have fallen had she mentioned it to Henry" isn't it a bit much? I loved the slow dawning realisation I got as I realised thatTo the Lighthousewas far more than just a pretty bit of prose. In this one's face is rather rubbed in the stuff.Though Forster does write about class, which I know Woolf has been criticised for not paying enough attention to - though personally I think those criticisms may be rather silly - and he does, I believe, a good job of it.Money pads the edges of things... God help those who have none. You and I and the Wilcoxes stand upon money as upon islands. It is so firm beneath our feet that we forget its very existence.And so it continues, rather brilliantly.This did go on, I thought, a bit too long, and the end was mired in airy-fairy sentimentality, but despite everything I am still in love with it. Forster always surprises me like that.