I would not have liked the Darkest Powers series had I not had all three books to read back to back. It's not that I have no patience. I do have a modicum of patience. I keep it in a jar on my desk. No, the problem with reading the Darkest Powers spaced out over the course of the three years they were published is pretty closely aligned with the problem I'm going to have reviewing them. The three books more or less equate one story. There are very few small arches to these books, the first two both end just when you reach a point where you want to pause to take a breath -- not pause to wait a year.Basically Kelley Armstrong is a tease, but not in a way that keeps you coming back for more. Just when things are getting good she stops. It's like having chicken pox and asking someone to scratch your back. This person scratches all around where you actually want them to and right when she's about to hit pay dirt she stops to go answer the phone then comes back a year later and asks if you're still itchy. No, I am not still itchy get the hell out of here.If you can borrow or buy all three books at once I recommend reading them. The paranormal romance was actually pretty good in this book. It wasn't the same cookie-cutter romance we've been getting a lot of. Going to spoil.Seriously. Spoiling.Okay. You're being spoiled. Chloe has a choice between two step-brothers, one of which is an adorable half-Asian spellcaster and the other is a acne covered werewolf. It is not the obvious choice!! Also, the relationship develops in a very fluid and natural way. Chloe and Derek bond first and declare eternal love later! Seriously it goes 1 then 2. Not 22222222 oh yeah 1. I was obviously pleased.I generally liked all the characters, including Tori. The dialogue was good. It never felt false or just set up for a punchline. The characters evolved and grew. The fab-four bonded and relied on each other. In general, Armstrong hit all the right notes for me.There are, however, some problems. Before reading The Darkest powers trilogy I had only read two of Armstrong's books. Bitten and The Gathering. I enjoyed Bitten but did not continue with the series because I accidentally confused Armstrong with another writer whose series I hadn't liked. (Thank God goodreads cleared me up on that.) When I still thought Armstrong was someone else I decided to pick up The Gathering and give her another chance since I did enjoy Bitten and I'd like to read how she did with YA.I loved the atmosphere in The Gathering, the creepy suspense and questions... which would unfortunately all have been spoiled if I'd read her Women of the Otherworld series or The Darkest Powers first. Armstrong is essentially writing the same exact story over and over again from the POV of different characters. I am hardcore disappointed, but I'm not going to take it out on Chloe. The Darkest Powers series is great, just delve gently into her other books if you're hesitant to pay 20 bucks a pop for a ticket to a very similar show.