4.5/5 starsRE-READ: April 2017RE-READ 2: March 2019Wow...I actually think I enjoyedFiremore this time around, and I was practically obsessed last time I read it.I had this really random sudden urge to re-read this book and I am so glad that I did. I read this when I first started reading a lot and so I basically enjoyed everything that I read. I noticed a couple of really negative reviews about this book and was curious if I would actually enjoy it now that I've read a lot more and am more critical of what I read. Turns out, nothing has changed and I still think it's fantastic.Fireis the second book in theGraceling Realmseries but it can definitely be read as a standalone as it follows a different cast of characters in a different part of the fantasy world. Fire, our main character, is a monster. But not the hideous, scary monsters that you and I are used to. No, Fire is a monster because of her otherworldly beauty and her corresponding ability to control minds. Fire is the last remaining human monster and is both hated and adored with people wanting to kill her because of her powers or people wanting to marry her because of her beauty. Fire doesn't want the control that she has over people and tries the hardest to guard people against her control.The Dells has fallen into a world of politics, betrayals and war. King Nash is young and impulsive, plus with rebels plotting to overthrow him he needs as much help as he can get. Most of this is coming from his brother Brigan, the lord commander of the army. He also wants the help of Fire to interrogate spies and suspects using her mind control abilities. Only, Fire is so afraid of using her abilities for manipulation and malice because she doesn't want to turn out like her dad. On top of that, she's growing to love Brigan who was one of the most tortured at the hands of her father and hates all that she is. Fire must come to terms with who she is, without being afraid of her abilities."As ash rose black against the brilliant sky, Fire's fiddle cried out for the dead, and for the living who stay behind and say goodbye."Fireis a beautifully written bookand I appreciated thepoetic and lyrical writingso much more this time around. The author so perfectly portrays all the characters' emotions as well as the political intrigue and mystery in this fantasy world. This book is definitely more of a character-driven novel as emotions, self realisation, discoveries and relationships take centre stage. The plot, in turn, is slow but also mostly captivating andinteresting. The detail in which Fire's emotions, especially her growing love, her pain and her journey for acceptance was written was sophenomenal. Fire, and all of the characters, were three dimensional and each were so well developed that I connected to every one of them. I seemed to overlook the beautiful writing and character development last time I read the book, so it was a pleasant surprise to betaken aback by the stunning craftsmanship of this author.As a romance lover, I will always notice and revel in a good romance, no matter how subtle it is in the book. InFire, the romance is not a main plot in the book but it certainly is there and it was wonderful. At the start, Brigan hated Fire due to who her dad was and because she was a monster. But, over the book their feelings towards each other subtlety changed from hatred to acceptance to camaraderie to this sort of belonging. It's hard to explain, but I just had this feeling thatthe characters belonged togetherand were only truly themselves accepting when they were together. They had the most beautiful late night chats which were some of my favourite scenes in the book.It's as if they were two puzzle pieces who fit together perfectly.I loved how they both seemed to draw strength and courage from on another, especially in the war-torn setting of the novel.This romance was gorgeous and was one of my favourite aspects of the novel.The moment I began to love you was the moment when you saw your fiddle smashed on the ground. And you turned away from me and cried against your horse. Your saddness is one of the things that makes you beautiful to me, don't you see that?"I'm not giving the book five stars due to a couple of small reasons. One being, the fact that Brigan didn't get as much limelight as he desecered. He was one of the best characters, most complex and well developed, but he wasn't as present in the book as some other characters. Even if it wasn't for romance purposes, I would have loved to see him more and it was kind of disappointing that my favourite character was often away and out of the story. Also, I didn't mind the slow plot but there was a time during the middle of the story that I thought things should have started picking up. The action that did come late in the novel was exceptional, but I would have liked something a little sooner.I'm so glad that I decided to re-read this bookand certainly appreciated the beautiful writing and phenomenally written characters more during this read.I wholeheartedly recommend this book, especially for fantasy lovers and people who don't mind character-driven novels. Plus, if you love a swoon worthy hero I would also recommend this because Brigan is basically perfect!