Content note: Yeah, I tried. Sorry. Incoherent rambling ahead. Seriously, this series has such an astonishing effect on me that the words just keep on coming. SOMEONE STAHP THEM.I know I initially gave this four stars, but it's been a good seven hours since I finishedFireand I still have the feeling that I want to dive back into the world and experience it all over again. It's more than that. Not only am I plagued by something I can only call "book nostalgia", I've replayed the story a few times in my head and, of course, overanalysed it to pieces. It's my special talent. This actually helped me figuring out those damned first 70 pages. I know I've complained about them a lot (and if you followed my updates, so do you :D), but they're rather essential, both to the story itself as toFire's place in theGraceling Realmsseries. So, the final verdict is4.5 starsandFiregoes on my "favourites" shelf.I was scared to read this, maybe even more so than when I startedGraceling. It's always a double feeling for me when I absolutely adored the first book in a series, which was definitely the case here. In addition, most of the reviewers I trust were not all that impressed by this second instalment, but I guess I've found a way to distinguish myself. HURRAY. IT'S A PARADE. Let me just say thatFireis very different fromGraceling, and I'm glad that I was a bit apprehensive going into it.Nevertheless, this book played an evil trick on my very fragile emotions. Often I was laughing so hard that I was glad no one could hear me. (I have a monstrous laugh. Many people can attest to this. It's one of my charms.) Then only a few sentences further all my happiness plummeted and I found my eyes getting misty. Oh man, I'm usually not so dramatic when reading, but this series is just playing me. THIS DOESN'T HAPPEN TO ME. I'm so bad with emoting that even my father, who's basically the embodiment of indifference, says that I'm cold. I was shocked at my own responsiveness. But you know whatbecause this series DESERVES it.I'm not going to deny thatFirehas tedious and boring moments and reads likeGraceling Realms: the telenovellain places, but I didn't mind. More importantly, I think it was kind of inevitable with the set-up we have. This is where the fearsome first 70 pages come in. The prologue starts strong. It's not super relevant to the story, especially not the first half of it, but it connectsFiretoGraceling. In this respect,Fireis a sort of prequel toGraceling, but I'd be more inclined to call it a companion novel. Chronologically speaking, it does indeed take place before the events ofGraceling, but except for one character, there's not much of a connection between the two.That doesn't mean that there aren't similarities, which is what pissed me off at first. Once again, we have a young girl who is lonely. She lives in a male-dominated world where mother figures are dead and/or absent, fathers have an abusive streak and try to control the heroine, and this time there's even a possessive boyfriend thrown into the mix. It's only this afternoon that I realised the importance of these parallels. Because while Katsa and Fire grew up under roughly the same circumstances, they are certainly not the same character. I can applaud this on so many levels. This is exactly how you prevent stereotyping.Attention all male NA love interests with tragic pasts: LEARN FROM THIS.Fire was a difficult character for me to connect with at first. In the mythology of this series, she's a monster. Monsters are animals (including humans) with unnatural colouring and they possess mental powers. The result is, she's objectively beautiful and people try to use her both for this beauty and her mind control. She's constantly harassed because of it and has decided to cover her looks as best as she can so that she'll stay out of harm's way. I definitely struggled with these chapters. They made me very uncomfortable, but it was obvious that that's the intention. There's this moment where Fire can't get from the stables to her room without being attacked multiple times by men who want to kiss, threaten, hurt or kill her, and often even all these things together. I honestly cried while reading that. She really does stand up for herself, pushes them away, tries to change their mind with her powers, but can you imagine how exhausting and denigrating it must be to have to do thisall the time?This is one of the most accurate depictions of rape culture I've ever seen in fiction.Sure, you can read this and think: "Oh my god girl, stop whining that you're too beautiful." but that's missing the point quite a bit. Fire can't help that she's beautiful, but somehow, because she's seen assomething desirable, people (read: mostly men) around her feel like they have a right to claim her.Oh look, sexualisation of exotic women. That never happens in our progressive times. OH WAIT.Of course, Cashore wouldn't be the phenomenal writer that she is, if she didn't have her characters growing into themselves and accepting what they have and don't have. The character development is quite stunning to experience. No, I don't know what it is to be objectively beautiful and universally desirable, but you can transpose these ideas to almost anything, whether it's race, gender, class, sexuality, ... and it's still relatable to how the dominant power thinks they can have or control you.I have one note on sexuality though. Part of the monster mythology is that no matter whether a monster procreates with another monster or a regular animal of its sort, the offspring will always be a new monster. Fire gets her make-up from her father. What bothered me was that she was told (and later complained about it herself) that her beauty was harder to bear because she was a woman. If monsters areobjectivelybeautiful, it seems to me that gender doesn't really play a role when it comes to their desirability. However, it can also be said that male monsters mainly have to shoulder the excessive admiration of normal people, while women are immediately in danger of being assaulted. So again, this is more a story of how our culture perceives pretty things and what they can do with it than the woeful tale of the pretty thing. I also have to say that the standards aren't 100% heteronormative when it comes to this aspect. Me likey the ambiguity.Then there's this one other thing that might turn some readers off with this concept: monsters are attracted by the scent blood, which means Fire has a monthly problem with protecting herself from monster attacks. This isn't just mentioned once, it's often a factor for crucial plot events. While some may find this thoroughly disgusting, I kind of loved the consistency Cashore displayed in this aspect. I mean, it takes MOXIE to stick with such an element. It's obvious that it inconveniences Fire, but the people around her show some decent understanding, empathise with her and try to help her. Seriously, the next time some guy is like "Eeeww, I don't want to know anything about cycles!" or worse "Stop being so angry. You must be on your period." I'm throwing(view spoiler)[gently, because I don't want to damage my copy too much.(hide spoiler)]this book at his head. No, better idea: from now on, this isrequired readingfor all assholes who think it's funny to make it into a joke.Then after the first quarter, we have court intrigue. It's fascinating. It's addictive. It's ...And just like these animals(view spoiler)[ Okay, technically they're alpacas. JUST IGNORE IT.(hide spoiler)]do every time I look at them, it cracked me the hell up. There are so many fantastic one-liners and the dialogue is just delightful. One of the best things aboutFireis that it really focuses on the characters.Gracelingwas mainly about Katsa and Po, and then Raffin, Leck and Bitterblue, butFirefeatures a group of so many amazing characters that I can't even say which one I loved most.The romance plot was super adorable in this one. My copy mentions an "unexpected romance" in its blurb, but it's pretty obvious who the lucky guy will be. Brigan and Fire begin at completely opposite ends, but they take the time and effort to get to know and understand each other and they just aaaaarghh. Brigan is a character in his own right, which makes him that much more interesting and appealing as a love interest. I'm so happy that in this novel, too, the couple takes their time and are friends first. However, where Katsa and Po were a bit too soon in the full-on love zone for me, Fire and Brigan make up the more realistic portrayal of love. They remind me of Margaret Hale and John Thornton fromNorth and South, in that they just dance around each other for too long but when they finally admit and exercise (heh) their feelings, it's better than Matt Bomer covered in Half Baked Alaska.You're welcome for the mental image. It's your reward for making it to the end of this monstrous review.I'm nothing if not loyal to the concept of the novel at hand.In conclusion: this series isn't just slowly winning my heart, it will have to break out all awful tropes and plot lines to make me even consider being disappointed. I immediately startedBitterbluebecause seriously: food, water, sleep, hygiene, social life, food again,I'm so conflicted to finish because I foresee a lot of ugly-crying in the very near future. I'm aware that these books are not for everyone, but it has come to a point where I don't even care if I'm the only one who likes them, because they are SO GOOD. Cashore has a knack for addressing serious problems in engaging stories and I just want her to be immortal, so that she can always keep writing them. This series is sometimes accidentally categorised as "The Seven Realms Series" and I know it may sound silly, but that gives me hope that there might be seven book (at least!), because that would make me happier than Castiel binging on hamburgers on Valentine's Day.