No doubt that if you're looking at this review, you have probably seen the movie of the same name...not a bad movie, but not a good one either. I read this one in high school after having seen a green placard on I-90 that said "Movie Location: STARSHIP TROOPERS."I thought that was pretty cool...not many cool things happen in South Dakota, so having a pretty descent (I thought at the time) movie shot in our Badlands made me even more interested in the book. Sometime later, I bought a copy at a used bookstore. From the first few pages I was hooked. Yes, there is a bunch of militaristic propaganda and you probably could write a pretty interesting dissertation about all the -isms that populate the thoughts and actions and messages within the pages. But I was a kid when I read this, and I didn't really care about all that...all I cared about was reading scenes of carnage and battle and bug guts.But these scenes never really came. There are some moments of battle, a few others ruminated about from the older generations, but mostly this novel is about courage and what it means to sacrifice your personal life in the name of citizenship.At the time of the reading, I never really thought about this. I was born in the good 'ol US of A and therefore had automatic citizenship. But now, I wonder what it would be like if America had a mandatory military enlistment. I like to think that I would be brave enough to enlist and serve my country. My family has a very strong record of military service: my grandfather in WWII, my father and a few uncles in Vietnam, an older brother served in Desert Storm, and another currently serves and has seen action in Afghanistan. I am proud of all these family members...but still, I wonder if I had to serve could I?This thought is what I believe to be the essence of STARSHIP TROOPERS. And at the tender age of seventeen, I never really understood these psychological implications. Even as a man in my twenties I never understood this. It has only been with the birth of my son that I have really gained an appreciation and deeper insight into the real world of war. Do I want my son to be a soldier? I really don't know. Is there a cause worth fighting for? No doubt. Is there a cause worth killing for? Again, I'm not sure. I know how I felt after 9/11, but that blood-lust has tapered off, and I'm back to not really knowing if violence through patriotism is a good thing.Perhaps because I am even writing this review and struggling with these questions is evidence enough that STRASHIP TROOPERS is a phenomenal piece of literature. Perhaps.All I know is this: If an alien species eradicated a portion of the world while attempting a hostile takeover, I'm glad that there are men and women that are ready to serve faithfully, while others, like me, remain lost in philosophical debate.HIGHLY RECOMMENDED(And thank you to all the veterans, in all wars, for their service to our country.)