I am on a book roll this week! No I do not mean that I am the filling in some sort of papery sandwich (although for the really enthusiastic book lover this may have some kind of kinky appeal, paper cuts not withstanding), I mean I have been selecting books from my shelf which I have been thrilled to read, engrossed and spell bound by and this does not always happen.I am constantly on the search for reading matter... in Liverpool I am probably the book equivalent of an overly tall Jawa (know your Star Wars people!) A forager always on the look out for reading material no matter how obscure the location and once a book has been tracked down it gets squirrelled away in my robes and whisked back to my space ship... er I mean flat. This weekend I've added Dante's Inferno (the illustrated version with the SE7EN-esque pictures by Gustave Dore), The Hare with Amber Eyes by Edward de Waal, Running Dogs by Don DeLillo, The Gun Slinger by Stephen King and Wolf Hall by Hilary Mantle to my collection.Will I read them all? Yes.Will I love them all? No, probably not.This brings me on, after a lot of digressing, to tell you how much I loved (loved LoVeD LOVED LoveD) The Gargoyle. Man, this is a good book. I've had it on my shelf for a while and picked it up once before when I read three pages and thought "nah", replaced it on the shelf and shuffled off with a different tome in my grubby paw. Why did I do that?!?!The Gargoyle centres around a man, who before his physical disfigurement was (for reasons which are spoilers and therefore will not be revealed here), emotionally and morally disfigured. However, being BBQ'd upside down in your own car after suffering cocaine induced hallucinations and as a result swerving off a cliff side road, covering yourself in a bourbon flambe and then getting set alight is a fairly life changing catalyst which would force well, anyone, to change their perceptions of themselves and the world around them... presuming they survive anyway. Following his accident the protagonist meets the enigmatic, beautiful, mad-as-a-box-of-frogs Marianne Engel who comes to his bedside with a secret. This is not their first life together and she has come to find him. They will spend together while she releases her 27 hearts... the final heart is just for him.As this hypnotic story unfolds you are drawn into the history of a love story which transcends historical periods and eventually one story spills over into five others with plot lines writhing together like the snakes of Medusa (Davidson got compared to David Mitchell for this and I am not sure how happy he should be with that comparison) each one more poetic than the last and all illustrating the point that great love is not restricted by the barriers of the corporeal world. Now before you all start sticking your fingers in your mouths and making "bleurgh" noises, you should know by now that I'm not a great fan of the slushy stuff and normally like my love affairs scandalous and hard-bitten. But this book is the exception to that rule and I'll stand by it. Brilliantly written, engaging, unusual and an unconventional introduction to Dante Alighieri!