This is My very first long review. I really don't expect it to be good but I will try my best.I am combining two books in a five book series written by Sylvia Day. First let me say this: Sylvia Day is an extraordinary writer. At least I think she is. A lot of you may disagree with me and that is fine. Everyone has their own favorite authors for every genre.Sylvia Day is what I call an " Erotica Specialist", yes erotica is is a romance with explicit sex. The way she writes, she can put erotica in thrillers if she wanted to. I have never heard or seen erotica thrillers. Oh, that would be a great challenge for an author like her.. Anyway, she has put erotica in shifter and historical romances. Hence the books, 7 Years to Sin and The Stranger I Married. Those are the only two books of hers that I have read besides Bared to You and Reflected in You.Now on to the books I want to review. Bared to You is the first in the Crossfire series.Eva Tramell, the main character or heroine in the two books, moved to New York City with a bisexual roommate, Cary Taylor, both from Southern California. She found a job at an advertising agency in the Crossfire building. She is also a workout fanatic, so she decided to walk to the building. When she arrived she bumps into Gideon Cross, he owns and works in the Crossfire building. Lo, and behold, love at first sight.....whoopy Ding Dong!! You know what?? I think I will stop talking about the storyline and just state my opinions. Everyone can pick up a book and read it.The storyline is repetitive, but good. Some of you may not get their feelings unless you have experienced childhood sexual abuse. The sex scenes are not and steamy but can be a little different with different positions and different ways and so on and so forth. To me it has very little dom. in the two books, so I am not sure why everyone thinks it's a reflection of E.L. James' books. Billionaire, most definitely but the dom.... No, I don't see to much in the two books.I want to finish reading this series before I can say how much dominance there actually is and get more information before I can really get into a review.This is just two books. Very good books but very repetitive. Isn't that what erotica is?? Repeated sex scenes??A very special I am thank you goes out to my "GR daughter" , Britney for helping me by encouraging me to do this review.