Totally bared. Our pleasure reflected in each other.Gideon Cross and Eva Tramell, together for less than a month, both seriously broken, are trying to build a relationship.This is the highly anticipated sequel toBared to Youfollowing on the next morning where the first book left off.This is in my opinion a more polished and professional book thanBared to You. A fairly impressive installment. And I'm surprised that I liked it as much as I did. The relationship, the characters, the childhood sexual abuse, etc read much more believably. Even Cross's business success (which I had a really hard time believing in the first book for a twenty-eight year old) has been given an explanation, and though not completely plausible I did buy it, making me smile.InBared to YouGideon and Eva's relationship, based initially on a strong sexual attraction, didn't seem to move on from there. But this time around, it's much more. There is plenty of sex, although not quite as much as I'd imagined there would be. Their relationship plays out a little bit d/s (but no real bdsm) which is kind of surprising as I thought that was the direction it was headed inBared to You. But in my opinion, it all worked much better.Even though Eva and Gideon manage to connect successfully through sex, the other parts of their relationship are still tumultuous. However, the added dimension of some suspense and a bit of intrigue to the storyline, lifted it above being simply focused on their sexual and emotional ups and downs. The second half of the book was totally engrossing.Now Gideon at last reveals some secrets about his childhood abuse. Cary, Eva's friend has a major problem to deal with. Eva has part of her past come back to haunt her, with Gideon becoming involved. And Gideon makes an unexpected confession.This was a far better read for me thanBared to You, ironing out some of the problems that really bugged me about the first book. The constant references to how Cross smelled. The overwhelming number of beautiful people. The inconsistencies in characterisation. The plot holes.Though this is not without some faults. Both Gideon and Eva are way too needy. Their relationship though passionate and consuming, is also obsessive and unhealthy. Eva's insecurities and Gideon's possessiveness makes for an angsty, emotional read, but they also come across as somewhat weak and immature. The first half seemed to concentrate on this and stalled the pacing. The second half is where this book really came together.Reflected in Youis a superior story to the first book and a surprisingly absorbing read. I had no intention of reading this sequel but I'm glad I did. This was a more mature, developed storyline, the writing, plot and characterisations more consistent, subtle and realistic. In all,Reflected in Youis entertaining, intriguing and well worth reading.Steam:4ARC courtesy of Penguin Group (USA) via Edelweiss