There are two major plot threads woven into the first two books of theHitchhiker'sseries. The more well-known regards the destruction of the Earth, pan-dimensional mice and the ultimate 2-digit number. Less famous, but equally integrated into the narrative, is a story of inter-galactic conspiracy, the pursuit of power and self-performed brain-modification. For 'the true ruler of the universe' must be found and the enigmatic Zaphod Beeblebrox cons himself into the quest, only he can't remember how or why he'd do such a thing.That this second story is less memorable shouldn't surprise, for by comparison it's a more standard yarn. There's a villain (the instantly unlikeable Zarniwoop), substantial foreshadowing (Zaphod probes his own brain to find evidence of the surgery he can't remember performing on himself) and a tidy resolution (the ruler of the universe is found and the villain is left stuck out in the rain, literally.)That the contemptible Zarniwoop is a publishing executive and that his whole clandestine enterprise proves pointless may reveal bitter sentiment on Adams' part. Is this all allegory for a publishing world corrupted by a need for drama, manufactured significance and familiar storytelling? Perhaps. More telling is the title;The Restaurant at the End of the Universe, referring to that magical establishment that houses the most remarkable and entertaining sequence in the whole series. Yet at the same time, this most amazing of dinner reservations is a pure excursion, having nothing to do with any of the ongoing plot threads. Our heroes dine-in, not in pursuit of galactic secrets, but in pursuit of food. And in the following quote we find Adams at his least sarcastic, a hint about what he deems truly important:'The History of every major Galactic Civilization tends to pass through three distinct and recognizable phases, those of Survival, Inquiry and Sophistication, otherwise known as the How, Why, and Where phases. For instance, the first phase is characterized by the question 'How can we eat?' the second by the question 'Why do we eat?' and the third by the question 'Where shall we have lunch?'