For me, reading has always been like connecting your brain to that of the book's author. Since January of this year, I have already finished 100 books and I never had experienced delving into a mind as scintillating as that of Jorge Luis Borges, the Spanish author of this strangely amazing (or amazingly strange) book - FICCIONES which means FICTIONS.To understand the book, you really have to slow down and reflect on each phrase. It is different from reading Salman Rushdie who I find confusing because of the terms and phrases that maybe a Indian-English person can only understand. Jorge Luis Borges uses familiar words and phrases but they are often stated in confusing way so much like his "forking paths" with the thoughts going into different directions that you have to choose where you want to go or believe.His imagination is spectacular and limitless. It goes beyond the imagination of a child which is amazing considering that he was already past his middle life (working in as a director in a library) when he wrote this novel. Years later he lost his sight which I thought must have enhanced further his imagination. Entry in his Wikipedia says that he lived with his mother and he had a secretary to write down his thoughts in his twilight years.I agree that he must have felt bad not winning the Nobel. His literary style is far beyond advanced than what I saw (and liked) in the likes of G. G. Marquez, S. Bellow and J. Steinbeck. Again, if what is stated in the Wikipedia is accurate, he lost his chance for a Nobel because he got his earlier awards on writing from a communist leader, Pinochet.I remember a story my brother Tata J when I was in high school. It was about the song Vincent (starry/starry night...) which, according to him, actually referred to the painter Van Gogh. During his time, people laughed at his paintings because they "could not understand" them. This is the same as those people who rated this book less than amazing (five stars). They just don't know how to appreciate a mind as beautiful as that of Jorge Luis Borges.