A multi-book review:A Short History of Nearly Everythingby Bill Bryson (5/5 stars),Small Godsby Terry Pratchett (5/5 stars),The God Delusionby Richard Dawkins (4/5 stars).I found myself reading all three of this novels at roughly the same time, and as I feel that they all complement each other, I will use this review for all three books. (So apologies in advance both for the length of this review, and for the fact it is for three books not just this one.)Small Godsis one of Pratchett's more serious Discworld novels; he deals with religion on a totally different level to say - Dawkins. Dawkins is writing from the perspective of our real, non-fictional world andThe God Delusionstems from his belief that there is no god and if all world religions vanished tomorrow, the world would be a better place. Pratchett writes from the fantasy fiction perspective that gods (plural) are absolutely real, but that fanatics of any religion can twist and distort even the smallest of these gods (in this case; the god Om trapped in a tortoise's body) to create a brutal doctrine that only pays lip service to those gods they claim to serve."Belief shifts. People start out believing in the god and end up believing in the structure."(SG; pg190) Pratchett has filled the book with some memorable characters; from Om himself, to Brutha the earnest novice/prophet, to the evil Vorbis (who I am inclined to think is in some way related to Vetinari of Ankh Morpork; only more sociopathic.)Bryson on the other hand, does not discuss religion at all and inA Short History of Nearly Everythingfocuses on pure history, maths and science; humanity's quest to understand our place in the universe and to quantify the world we all inhabit."We live in a universe whose age we can't quite compute, surrounded by stars whose distances from us and each other we don't altogether know, filled with matter we can't identify, operating in conformance with physical laws whose properties we don't truly understand."(ASHoNE: pg 219)There is no doubt that belief in god/gods can be a huge force for good and for evil. Dawkins does acknowledge some of these good things."It [religion] gives consolation and comfort. It fosters togetherness in groups. It satisfies our yearning to understand why we exist"(TGD: 40%). I would argue that it has also inspired many great works of art, architecture and literature. However despite this concession, Dawkins doesn't hold back,"Thousands of people have been tortured for their loyalty to a religion, persecuted by zealots for what is in many cases a scarcely distinguishable alternative faith...devout people have died for their gods and killed for them...what is it all for?"(TGD: 40%) Dawkins is a confrontational writer. He expects everyone to disagree with him (and to be fair seeing some of the nasty comments he gets from Christians I do understand why), and therefore spends a lot of time arguing - and justifying his arguments - to various critics. About half way through the book Dawkins really starts to shine, he proposes some fascinating theories on how and why humanity could have evolved religion as a survival instinct. My favourite quote of his is the following;"I mean it as a compliment when I say that you could almost define a philosopher as someone who won't take common sense for an answer."(TGD: 22%)Bryson, in simply not engaging in the topic of religion, does much more to throw doubt on the existence of a higher power watching over us. He makes it seem absolutely clear how insignificant our little planet is in the vastness of the universe."..in a single cracking instant we were endowed with a universe that was vast - at least a hundred billion light years across.. - and perfectly arrayed for the creation of stars galaxies and other complex systems."(ASHoNE: pgs 33-34)He describes in detail the 'big bang' theory that led to the existence of life, and the discovery of many scientific and mathematical principles that have held sway for centuries. The amount of research Bryson must have done for this book is incredible. He writes in an engaging tone on a difficult subject and writes as simply as possible to ensure everyone who picks up this book can understand what he's talking about. He discusses some of the words most famous scientists and geologists; Mary Anning, Marie Curie and Albert Einstein, along with those unfortunate figures from history who never got their rightful place in the history books like Karl Scheele; a chemist who discovered eight of the elements now on the period table and got credit for none of them.To sum up the three books for me in a nutshell; Dawkins argues that belief in god and organised religion makes the world a worse place. Pratchett says that some people - no matter what their excuse - are always going to persecute others. Whether or not gods exist isn't even the issue; the issue is human nature itself. While Bryson says, who cares about discussing religion at all, look at all this cool stuff you didn't know about our shared history and the world we live in and look at what's going on in the universe right now.I very much enjoyed reading these three books alongside each other, and I would recommend all three books to anyone interested in the subjects of science and religion.(Small Godsis part of the larger Discworld series but it is easy to read as a stand-alone fantasy novel, and I hope that no one would be put off from reading it when they see that it is number 13 in a series.)