Buckle up.It's gonna be...a slow ride until about halfway through. Then it's hairpin turn after hairpin turn at breakneck speed.Whiplash.This book was a bit difficult to get into. Mikael Blomkvist (a journalist) issentenced to jail for liable.He knows he's right. His team knows he's right. Butthey don't have enough evidenceto overturn it.His magazine is about to go under and with this jail scandal....let's just say life isn't a bouquet of roses.Henrik Vanger - ex-head of the Vanger corporation - decides to hire Mikael for a special assignment: writing the family history. However,that is just a cover.His real job? Solve a decades-old murder of Henrik's favorite niece (Harriet).Mikael soon teams up withLisbeth Salander.She's a hacker extraordinaire with her own, peculiar brand of justice. She's simply stunning and absolutely puts all other heroines to shame.An absolute motherfreaking badass.Together, they discover far more than their wildest nightmares.NOTE: This was my third time through, and honestly...third time's the charm.Attempt 1:Eighth Grade. Read up until the financial scam and lost interest (DNF).Attempt 2:Learned that this was my grandfather's fave book. I wanted to have something in common with him so I reluctantly picked it up.I listened to the audiobook and became engrossed in the mystery but frequently lost track of who was who. I'm still glad I tried it because it gave me something to write to him about in the weekly letters.Attempt 3:It's been a bit over a year since my grandfather passed and I just felt like I needed to read it again.Reading this book for the third time just blew my mind. It's partly because I was constantly reminded of him and partially because I'm familiar enough with the plot/characters that I can pick up on all the things I missed earlier. It's been a bittersweet reread.The 2018 PopSugar Reading Challenge - Nordic NoirAudiobook CommentsRead by Simon Vance and he was just the absolute perfect voice for this book. Really, truly a great listen.Blog|Instagram|Twitter