4.5 StarsWhen Vampire Academy ended and I found out we were getting a spinoff series, I was a little skeptical. I mean how to you top Rose and Dimitri? But after I found out it was centered on Sydney Sage, the awkward Alchemist, and Adrian the sexy, flippant but loveable Moroi, I was totally on board. I loved Bloodlines and after reading this, I think the series just keeps getting better.In this installment, we pick up right where we left off in Bloodlines. The group is minus the traitorous Keith, with Sydney making points for handling the situation so well. Dimitri and Sonya have arrived to study spirit with Adrian. Both the vampire community and the Alchemists want to find out why, once a Strigoi is changed back into their original state, they will never be able to be turned back to Strigoi again. Sydney, Jill, and Eddie continue to attend Amberwood Prep as siblings but they have a new addition to assist in the protection of Jill: Angeline, the dhampir from the Keepers, a separatist group of Moroi, dhampir, and humans who don't care for the rules of the Moroi court. Angeline is a fun addition to their group, and I like how she mixes things up for Jill and Eddie!Richelle Mead really shines in character development, and this is my favorite part of this story. Sydney had come a long way since we first met her in VA. Her prejudices are slowly breaking down. She is finally seeing the Moroi, and dhampirs as people, not as evil, unnatural creatures. My favorite part of her growth, though, is that in relation to Adrian. To see them grow close, and lean on each other was a real pleasure. There are many moments of swoon and hilarity. Adrian is his usual wise-cracking self, and then Sydney can just be so clueless with social situations, you can't help but laugh. The best part with them is seeing how much they genuinely care for one another. I've always had a soft-spot for Adrian. In VA, he helped Rose so much without questions or strings attached (well, maybe a little bit of string!). But I always thought he went above and beyond for her, as well as Jill. He's even more of a sweetheart in this book. There were times I would be sighing,oh Adrian! I don't want to give anything away, but fans of "Sydrian" will not be disappointed. Alexa used this quote in her review, but I have to put it in mine too because I LOVE IT!!!:"You are the most beautiful creature I have ever seen walking this earth. And you don't even know it."And Ihaveto give you this one too:"Sage," he said. "What are you wearing?"I sighed and stared down at the dress. "I know. It's red. Don't start. I'm tired of hearing about it.""Funny," he said. "I don't think I could ever get tired of looking at it."Yep, there was definite swooning!!There is not as much action in this series as there was in VA. I think this is because both Sydney and Adrian are not fighters. I have a feeling we will see more action in the coming books, though, and I don't think these two will be on the sidelines. Sydney's reluctant education into the world of magic continues, and I think Adrian will feel the need to be more proactive with defense, in the future. These are just speculations on my part, we shall see. As for the ending, all I can say is WOW!! I can't wait until the next book!Thank youso much, Alexa, for lending me your precious copy!! I had a blast with all the notations!