Buddy read with sisPearl--&gt; click to check her fabulous review :)After 2 years, I have finally continued theBloodlinesseries. I purposely put this off for a while and wait for the books to be released (now they are all out. i'm gonna binge read the series. I'm just not a fan of cliffhangers). It's a bit tough getting into the story and I'm glad Richelle Mead wrote snippets to refresh my mind on the events happened from the previous book.Golden Lilyis afantastic sequel. The twists are better and it puts me on the edge of my seat. I'm enjoying this more than theVampire Academyseries because it'smore complex, has darker theme and filled with wonderful characters.The story starts on what's left on the previous book as Sydney continues to protect the remaining family member (aside from Vasilissa Dragomir - who is now a Queen) of the Dragomir clan, Jill Mastrano Dragomir along with the dhampirs, Eddie &amp; Angeline. Oh, let's not forget the hot vampire, Adrian Ivashkov who is still healing from a heartbreak from Rose Hathaway (grr). As her duty goes on, Sydney's relationship with the gang develops an attachment towards them. It's like she found a family who supports her regardless of what they are but as an Alchemist, she shouldn't be. The mere idea conflicts her whether she should trust her Alchemy beliefs or choose what she wants to believe in. There are so many things happened in this book. More secrets in the Alchemy world, a new group threatening the vampires, an experiment to prevent Strigoi conversion and Sydney exploringrelationship. I just enjoy every single one of them.Sydney Sage is an intelligent, genuine, selfless, caring, loyal and amazing heroine.Her character exhibits such a great character development throughout the story. She may not be as badass as Rose Hathaway but she's an incredibly likable character. I love how she believes in one person's abilities and talents when no one else does. She appreciates someone's effort and continually motivates a person to excel. That's what she did toAdrian Ivashkov. I just love this guy more than anything.He's protective, adorable, swoon-worthy, loving,and has a great sense of humor.I cannot take this anymore and let's get to the point:SYDRIAN.I SHIP SYDRIAN FOREVER. I ship these two when they were in Vampire Academy. It's obvious there is an attraction between them but it's still underdeveloped.Their relationship progressed really slow just enough as they get to know each other.I FEEL SO GIDDY. IT GIVES ME BUTTERFLIES. THANK GOODNESS THIS SPIN-OFF SERIES EXISTS! THAT ENDING? OMFG. MY FEELS. HEART EYES. I seriously want to swat Sydney on that part. I just can't imagine if I've read this ages ago andI WILL WAIT FOR THE SEQUEL?I'll go damn ballistic.