Well, hello there. It's officially been two months since I actually finished a book, and it's been longer than that since I reviewed one. I almost forgot what it feels like to come to the last page of a book, read it, exhale slowly, and put the book down gently with that small spark of accomplishment raging deep inside you. Plus, the whole post-book sandwich thing that I've mentioned somewhere before and, again, may not be a real thing.So, Rebecca... wow. It took me a month to read it because I started it in the midst of my yearly book slump. I put it down for a while, not because it sucked, but because books in general were just not doing it for me at that time in my life. I think this is a safe place to share that. Maybe you read all the time, nonstop, couldn't think of ever slowing down. That's awesome. I, on the other hand, set goals I can't accomplish and find myself too easily distracted by other stuff sometimes.Anyway, for all of y'all out there in a similar situation where you're Netflixin' and chillin' or playing video games or enjoying the summer outside somewhere, and you come back to books like "Damn, I don't feel like reading and nothing even sounds good because right now I have some very specific needs of what I want a book to do to me and nothing is going to fit into these ridiculous categories I've outlined for myself plus I don't even really have time right now and the new season of Game of Thrones is starting soon..."If you're feeling any of that, go grab a copy of Rebecca somewhere and relax. As I'm writing this review, I'm relaxing with a Community Mosaic IPA because 1) IPAs are awesome 2) this one is one of my local favorites and 3) I'm a hipster. Relax. Start reading Rebecca. Let it intoxicate you like too many sips of a local IPA. From the very beginning, the writing is amazing. It never lets up either. Every scene, every character, every event... they are all painted so beautifully and methodically. Sometimes you'll find yourself caught up in the suspense, and then a long paragraph describing the room interrupts, but it's just so sexy and feels so important that you don't even care. You don't even feel interrupted. It all feels necessary.I took my time with the book early on, but gee whiz man I didn't drop the book much during the second half. I don't want to talk about the plot really, but the book did go places I wasn't expecting in a great way. There's a slow, suspenseful build that hangs in the air, and by the end you have to keep moving quickly as things unravel because it doesn't let up until the last page. Whew!!I learned recently that Hitchcock directed the movie which makes perfect sense. If you like Hitchcock, you should enjoy this one. If you like good, well-written, slow-burning mysteries, this is for you. If you are a human with eyes functioning well enough to take in the words written in these pages, this is for you. Highly recommended. Kicked me right out of my slump and reminded me books are awesome.And, I get to enjoy a fantastic sandwich today! Happy Independence Day, America!!Update 7/9/17: The Hitchcock movie gets 5 stars, too. Check it out.