Review to come, of course. This is Roald Dahl at nearly his best. I'm reading it too slowly for my taste but sometimes life gets in the way. I thought his best book is Going Solo actually. But Matilda is quite original. It's like the movie Home Alone, only the parents are the villains. It's a bit of an exaggeration, but I just threw it there.Okay, done.This was such a fun read, drenched with magical writing, and emanating the familiar bouquet of bittersweet nostalgia feeling that I am wont to experience with my favourite Roald Dahl books. It reminded me of the absolute mastery of the author in couching the absolute horrors of human nature within staples of children literature, such as growth, triumphing over personal fears, standing up against unfairness, camaraderie, using ingenuity against adversity and so on. As a child, I did not grasp the depth of scars that could be sustained when visited with the tragedies mentioned in here. But ironically, as an adult I found them to be crippling in the extreme.Most of the darkness in this book is conveyed through Ms. Honey's past. Her loss, the sense of being trapped, and then abused, bullied, almost all of these originating from the bovine Trunchbull. I mean between her and the Wormwoods, it sometimes seems as if they are neck in neck in the running for the Knobel Prize for douchebaggery. But the truth is that the Trunchbull is operating on a whole other level. The Phelps (not the kindly librarian in the book, but the all-conquering, Olympic swimmer) of the competition, if you will.Though I seem to make the book sound like a foray into the wintry-gray ambience of a Russian novel, it really isn't remotely as bleak. Roald Dahl very deftly veils most of the ugliness from us, softening most of its impact. Matilda's pranks against the escalating shenanigans of her horrid, anti-intellectual parents are hilarious. I also liked the description of Matilda settling in, cosy as can be with hot chocolate to engage in some bookworming (Though with a touch of envy I must say. The delights of hot chocolate are quite lost to me as I live in a fairly warm, sometimes boiling part of the island I'm from). And I never thought I would cheer for an obese boy to go through such an unhealthy amount of chocolate cake. By the time he was done, he was my hero.Schadenfreude doesn't cover what I felt when the comeuppance comeuppanced (or should that be cameuppance?). It was a vicariously cathartic experience to realise all would be well again. If it hadn't, this would not be a children's book. But it is. And I'm grateful for that.