What a lovely story this was... Matilda by Roland Dahl was the first book i had ever heard all the way threw by audiobook. My brother Clay who is obsessed with the study of birds carefully layed the book beside him just to get a good listen to the story. My sister who was tending to my mom's coffee and takeing care of me while i was very sick had to stop by the liveing room a few times this morning to also get a good listen to what was happening in the story. I was truly thriled that my siblings were into this story as much as i was.... Of course if you asked them what they thought of the book they would simply respond with an "it was okay" answer but the expressions on their faces were priceless and it was not an okay look it was a this book is incredible look.Matilda Wormwood was a five and a half year old girl who lived with uncareing, inconsiderant, and selfish parents. Her father was a crook who cheated people whenever they were buying his cars. Mr. Wormwood was a nasty beastly man and his wife was no better. Mrs. Wormwood often left Matilda alone so she could go play bingo in the village... Matilda had to feed and take care of herself at the age of three. Everyday after her mother left for bingo Matilda would walk down a busy highway to the library where she would devour book after book.At five and a half Matilda ventured to school and met her best friend Lavender, her teacher Ms. Honey, and her wicked headmistress Ms. Trunchpull... *Spoiler Ms. Trunchpull was acually Ms. Honeys aunt so they were related but that detail did not matter in the book until almost the end.* Ms. Trunchpull was a very strong and athletic person who really enjoyed beating up on the poor children of Ms. Honeys classroom... They were called names, thrown out the windows of the building, hung by their ears and hair..... Oh the poor children in Ms. Trunchpulls hands all the children ever feared most of all was that strapping, strong, mean headmistress who would often virbually and physically abuse them.Matilda grew to love her new teacher but she despised her headmistress... This little girl had so much anger built up inside of her that it was incredible... She developed powers because of all the electricity building up inside of her and she began to notice this durning one of her lessons with Ms. Trunchpull... Matilda found herself starring at a glass of water and demanding it to tip over and it did. Matilda practiced and practiced her new power and the only one she ever told about it was Ms. Honey who had a taste of what Matilda was capable of...Thats all the summary i want to go into because if you have not read the book then i am not going to ruin more for you...... Lets just say *Spoiler...... Ms. Trunchpull was run out of town thanks to Matilda and everything was like new after Ms. Honey adopted her.* Wait okay i did ruin more of the book for you but i did not tell you about the newt or why Ms. Honey takes in the little girl so it is still worth a read.I sadly cannot rate this book with five stars....... What i noticed with it was that her life at home was what made the story fun..... The whole Wormwood family was what made the story fun and whenever the author cut them out just so Matilda could go to school......Well it was kind of dissapointing. Did i forget to mention that Matilda was a genius? Well she was and her little mind held thousands of facts about books and mathamatics problems.Matilda is a four star rateing which is still perfect and it is a reccomended book but the violence is kind of severe so most definatly not a kindergarden- forth grade age appropriate. I did not approve of Ms. Truncchpull and her way of treating children and i also do not umnderstand why parents did not complain..... Yesthey were scared of her but why did they not just pull their children out of school and stuck them in a new one with a fresh start?My Rateing4/5