Matildais a lovable protagonist, revered for her mischievous nature and easily sympathized with because of her abusive parents who don't recognize how extraordinary she is. Admittedly, she's a vengeful girl, but that never subtracts from her likability.Roald Dahl crafted unapologetically over-the-top characters for this book:When she marched -- Miss Trunchbull never walked, she always marched like a storm-trooper with long strides and arms aswinging -- when she marched along a corridor you could actually hear her snorting as she went, and if a group of children happened to be in her path, she ploughed right through them like a tank, with small people bouncing off her to left and right."Not particularly," the mother said. "I'm not in favour of blue-stocking girls. A girl should think about making herself look attractive so she can get a good husband later on. Looks is more important than books, Miss Hunky . . .""The name is Honey," Miss Honey said."Now look atme," Mrs. Wormwood said. "Then look atyou. You chose books. I chose looks."And the writing is spectacularly macabre:"Only yesterday the Trunchbull caught a boy called Julius Rottwinkle eating Liquorice Allsorts during the scripture lesson and she simply picked him up by one arm and flung him clear out of the open classroom window. Our classroom is one floor up and we saw Julius Rottwinkle go sailing out over the garden like a Frisbee and land with a thump in the middle of the lettuces."Many were guessing [the cake] had been filled with pepper or caster-oil or some other foul-tasting substance that would make the boy violently sick. It might even be arsenic and he would be dead in ten seconds flat. Or perhaps it was a booby-trapped cake and the whole thing would blow up the moment it was cut, taking Bruce Bogtrotter with it.The innocent use of curse words are good for a chuckle:tinker's toot, flaming, blazes, piffle.There are even important messages neatly tucked into the story:"It was easier the second time, much much easier. I think it's like anything else, the more you practice it, the easier it gets."There's nothing quite like Roald Dahl's flights of fancy. Beloved as a girl and cherishes as an adult,Matildaranks among the top favorites from his body of work.