I vow here and now to read this with each of my daughters when they are 18 or 19 years old and any of their friends that want to read along and discuss it with us.There was so much in Christy that resonated in me. Being that I am from Tennessee and generations of my family were from there, most never leaving the state and many living in and traveling through the mountains and regions nearby where this story took place obviously played a role in my enthrallment. Catherine Marshall described the beauty, well, beautifully, and she shared the heritage and history of these predominately Scotch-Irish and English individuals that you meet there exceptionally well. I know those people. They are so familiar to me with their stubbornness and hard-working, do-what-you-gotta-do-to-make-it attitudes. Fun to hear their "law me" and "ah-law" as I heard my whole growin' up.What I might love more than anything is that Marshall gives dignity to her characters. Yes, they are ignorant of the "outlanders" world, but they are not wholly stupid as the south is often painted. For example, Fairlight Spencer, my favorite character, rattles off nine different types of mosses, knows her medicinal herbs, enjoys the glory of the earth as not many know how to do, is a true seeker of knowledge and wisdom, and knows how to really be a friend to someone. All this from a country, backwoods, barefoot, illiterate lady. Love it!Marshall certainly doesn't romanticize the lives of these mountain people in 1912, and she definitely helps you understand that you ought to be thankful for the time in which you are living. Cutter Gap, Tennessee...water from the spring, not even an out-house, illiteracy, poverty, hunger, rampant typhoid fever - no thanks. But, a return to nature, coming-of-age questioning on philosophies of life, learning how to sacrifice for others, how to handle and walk with others through pain, death, and mourning, first loves and what is real love and what is not, a return to the Maker of all this beauty, quiet, peace, heaven, and so much more is woven into this amazing biographical novel.Well, come to think of it, maybe it's the redemptive stream throughout that I love the most.Or, is it that it's a biographical novel? Hmmm...well, I like it all.I'm thankful for the time that Catherine Marshall spent listening to her mother's stories and writing them all down. This should inspire us all to do the same. Sharing the past with the future generations. What a blessing and a joy to read. Inspiring.