The Sorrows of Young Wertheris a beautiful and emotionally accurate depiction of romantic love: its consuming nature, and the devastation it has the potential to inflict. As a novel it is striking (especially for its time) in the way it subverts the traditional format, by connecting an epistolary structure with an overarching narrative from an unnamed "editor". The language is so wonderfully romantic and personal, one really is made to feel as Werther felt throughout his ordeal.I especially loved the novel for its examination of romantic love as an almost diseased state of being: one that consumes and transforms, causing the overwhelming focus of one's life to be directed at the object of love, and all future concerns to hinge upon the question of reciprocation. This virulent nature is epitomised in the following passage, in which Werther discusses with his rival Albert the consuming power of despair:Woe to him who could look on and say, "Foolish girl! Had she waited, had she let time have its effect, despair would surely have abated, and surely someone else would have come forward to comfort her." Just as if one should say, "What a fool to die of fever! Had he waited until his powers had recovered, his life forces improved, the tumult of his blood abated, then all would have gone well, and he would be alive today!"Certainly this was not the first time in history that sorrow caused by unrequited love was likened to physical illness, but the acknowledgement that it can consume with such inevitability, beyond the control of will alone, is striking in its likeness to modern notions of depression and mental illness. For me, this examination raised intriguing questions around free will and the nature of the mind: to what extent are we in control of ourselves, when a simple thing like love can transform us so?What fascinates me is the reduction of such complex and powerful thoughts and emotions to the modern, almost binary perspective, where some thoughts may be considered normal and well, and other entire categories of thought are considered malignant and requiring treatment. Werther may have suffered from mental illness by modern definitions, but had he sought treatment for his condition and overcome it, would this somehow have diminished the love he felt for Lotte, and thereby also have reduced a very real part of himself? Here the distinction between the two types of illnesses compared in Werther's quote becomes apparent: unlike the fever, Werther's illness arose from himself - it was a result of his own genuine thoughts and desires, and its treatment would imply at some level a loss of agency, even a loss of self.This is not to say that I am a Romantic about such matters - I don't believe that avoidable suffering and loss should be endured (where treatment exists it should be sought). Werther's fate is not to be idealised. But philosophically speaking, what fertile ground this is for exploration!