My Thoughts: DO NOT READ THIS REVIEW IF YOU HAVEN'T READ DELIRIUM. AND IF YOU HAVEN'T, WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR????Uh, I'll start this review off with what I wrote on goodreads as soon as I finished.If you thought Delirium was great you will be blown away by Pandemonium. I wish I had the next book. OMG. I want to both cry and scream right now.....Why, why, why did I read this so soon? LOLI had a feeling it was going to end like that but to actually have it happen is going to drive me nuts now since I don't have the next book.WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOWSo, that was my initial thoughts when I updated my goodreads status.Do I still feel that way? Yes, Yes, Yes.We start off in the Now part of the book. For 2 pages, than we are thrown into the Than part. Confused yet?We are reunited with Lena. She has escaped to the Wild's without Alex. Oh, I'm sure you remember that dreadful ending in Delirium and Alex is still nowhere in sight. Lena suspects he's dead even though she doesn't want to say it out loud. She imagines he's still with her and goes out on her own.She ends up being on her own for a few days until a group of others come across her and take her in, nursing her back to life. Let me tell you about my favorite characters. There is Raven, who seems to be a few years younger than Lena, but has become one of the leaders of the group and takes care of everything. Than there is Blue, who is just a little girl. I really liked Blue but she reminded Lena too much of Grace. Next up is Hunter. Hunter's a sweet guy who is friendly to Lena from the start. Than there is Tack. Tack is independent, strong willed, and tough. He always has a scowl on his face. Of course, there are many more characters but these are just a few of my favorites.Lena survives in the wild with the group for a while. She learns to get supplies, learns to wash clothes by hand, to carry water buckets, how to cook, the whole nine yards. She does what she must to survive and stay a part of their group.Than we are thrust into a whole other world. The future tense. What is happening NOW. Lena is working with Raven to take down the DFA. They are the ones who want everyone to be cured. We meet Julian right away. He is the son of the person who thinks love must be cured. He is due to have his procedure soon.Lena and Julian end up getting captured during one of the meetings and thrown in a room together. They spend days in that room, getting to know each other slowly and awkwardly. They think they have nothing in common at first except that she has been cured (she lies) and he is to be cured soon. He wants to know what it will feel like, will all temptations be taken away? Will he feel like a different person?Lena and Julian end up escaping and make their journey to find Raven and Tack. In the process, Julian is taken back by his father, and set to have his procedure. Of course Lena doesn't think its right to make him have this procedure. He should have a choice, a real choice.Well, I don't want to give away anymore spoilers. That was already a few and I didn't want to give away any!Do we ever see Alex again? Let me just say this, the information we find out about Alex and Lena's mom is insane. It was crazy intense. This whole book was so great. It was full of action, fast paced, and just a wonderful story. I wish I had the third book now.The Than and Now back and forth chapters were a little confusing at first, but I got right into it. The bad thing is, I didn't like skipping back and forth because Oliver pulls you into one than you want to know what happens in that situation, than your thrust into the other situation. I'm sure that was her point, but I was on pins and needles the whole book. (Which is a good thing HAHA)I loved Delirium and I was left crying at the end. I loved Pandemonium even more, and I was left wanting to cry but at the same time, wanting to tell her how genius she is!For all you Alex fans out there, you won't be completely disappointed however you won't be happy either. I was totally in love with Alex but throw another guy in the mix, and I'm as confused as ever. Love Triangle anyone?Overall: Oh My Gosh. I absolutely loved it. Can I marry this book? This was one of my favorite books I've read of 2011!!!Cover: Really like it. Delirium had a cool cover, but so does this one.What I'd Give It: 5/5 Cupcakes____________Review Based On Hardcover EditionTaken From Princess Bookiewww.princessbookie.com