Read the full review atiLive, iLaugh, iLove Books.Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like you to know that I am screaming. That's what this book made me feel like. I finished it, and these were my thoughts:.........OHMIGOODNESSWHATTHEHECKJUSTHAPPENED? *head explodes*Alright, so maybe my head is still is fine condition. But that was a pretty good representation of what I felt. This book was amazing. If you loved Delirium, you are going to want to eat this one. (Apparently "eat" is above "love" on my emotional scale. I don't see anything wrong with that.)The book is told alternatively between the present and the past. Not the past-past. Noooo. That old Lena is dead. Whatever happened in Portland is gone. We have parts where Lena is in the Wilds, just newly escaped from the bordered community. And then we have the present, which involves the resistance and all those big guns. Some of it was boring, and the beginning was pretty slow. While I enjoyed reading about the homestead (that's basically a camp for the Invalids), I wanted to skip some of the snail-pace parts.Despite its slow start, this book starts fast forwarding very quickly and the words just hit you like BAM! BAM! BAM! (I'm sorry, but I'm finding a hard time describing this book.) Every single word was a twist in my heart. You have no idea (until you've read this book) how Lauren Oliver has the ability to hold your very heart in your hand and stretch it to her will. Kind of a scary image, yes, but kind of the best I can give you. Her writing is beautiful and descriptive, and kind of just flows over you like water. There were parts that left me breathless and all adrenaline-filled, like I just ran a marathon. I was pretty much on the edge of my seat the entire time. (That was a metaphor; the majority of it was read while lying in bed like the lazy person I am.)And the ending. I don't know how much of it you have heard about, but I will not ruin it for you, because I am a nice person. But WOOOOOOW. After I read that last word, I just kinda of stared at the book with my mouth open. And then my dad made me go to bed, but I kind of just lay in bed for a few hours, thinking. And staring at the dark ceiling. Honestly, 2013 cannot get here any faster.My thoughts? Read. This. Book. While it has a dystopian-ish feel, this book is definitely all about the romance, which Oliver does beautifully. You should definitely read it. I'm having trouble forming words right now, because my brain is still mush, so that's all I can think of.