"It's clear to me now that I have been moving toward you and you toward me for a long time. Though neither of us was aware of the other before we met, there was a kind of mindless certainty humming blithely along beneath our ignorance that ensured we would come together. Like two solitary birds flying the great prairies by celestial reckoning, all of these years and lifetimes we have been moving toward each other."This book. Oh my God, this book.I just finished it earlier this morning and I have a feeling that it is going to be one of those books that stays with me for the rest of my life.Francesca Johnson is a farmer's wife living in Madison County. She is at peace with her life, but she is unhappy. She is a passionate woman, with hopes and dreams that are as untamed as the wildest windstorm. When freelance photographer Robert Kincaid stops at her doorstep seeking directions to the various covered bridges in the area they find themselves caught up in a love affair that knows no boundaries."This is why I'm here on this planet, Francesca. Not to travel or make pictures, but to love you. I know that now. I have been falling from the rim of a great, high place, somewhere back in times, for many more years than I have lived in this life. And through all of those years, I have been falling toward you."I cannot even begin to describe how much I adored this book. It was literally the perfect blend of forbidden romance, myseterious beauty, and poignant sadness. It has a surprisingly low rating here on goodreads and after finishing it I think I understand why. The main character Francesca is having a love affair outside of her marriage. The book is primarily focused on that, and this is the issue that I feel many people cannot understand. Look, don't get me wrong. I am not condoning infidelity. But what I am condoning is that pure rush of love. Have you ever felt that? That moment where you life changes and you heart feels as if it might soar right out of your chest? That realization that you absolutely have to be with that other person and consequences be dammed? I know I have. It's a terrifying feeling yet wonderful all at the same time. And this book really and truly shows just how deep and how strong love can be."Analysis destroys wholes. Some things, magic things, are meant to stay whole. If you look at their pieces, they go away."So I fell head over heels in love with this story and its characters. I really wish it had been longer because I never wanted it to end! The writing was as lyrical and beautiful as the story itself was. Don't read this book if you have strong strong opinions about extramarital affairs. Don't read this book if you are cynical, biased, or jaded about love. But DO read this book if you have an open heart. Do read this book if you believe that the force of love can change your life in an instant. It is a remarkable book!"In a universe of ambiguity, this kind of certainty comes only once, and never again, no matter how many lifetimes you live."