Nabokov has long been a huge obvious hole on my "read" shelf, which is a funny thing to say because it implies that my "read" shelf is more substantial than a few mangy pieces of string recrossed and knotted in a sad effort to make it seem as if it's not actually just one giant gaping hole of missing books that it's sad and troubling I probably won't ever manage to make it through before I die. Yes, I did read and greatly appreciatedLolitaback in high school, but that was quite a ways back into the last century, a time that barely counts now as having even happened, and in the decades since I'm not sure what's happened but Nabokov has somehow gathered force in my weak mind and come to loom as some kind of fierce and frightening demigod of a writer, far too intellectual and too gifted for the mere likes of me.In fact, I'm not sure what made me finally pick this up at the library. I can't help tying everything these days to our broiling political climate, and perhaps here I can point to the rise in virulent xenophobia (on the right of course -- but perhaps I must also take into account a touch of anti-Russian hysteria on the left...?) and anti-immigrant rhetoric. Because doesn't Nabokov himself exemplify the primal fear of the sly and infinitely resourceful immigrant who will take our job -- presuming of course that our job is writing Great American Novels -- and do it infinitely better than any of us ever could? That he will learn our language and master it so well that our own American English sounds dumb when we try, that he'll use words we'll need to look up in the OED and that when we don't find one there, and google it, we'll learn that the only recorded use of said word is in fact by this author in this very novel, and how is that for the sly and resourceful hijinks of a disruptive foreigner in our midst?I knew absolutely zilch aboutPale Firewhen I opened it, which is how I prefer to begin any novel, but I will offer that it concerns the arguably sly and/or somewhat resourceful hijinks of a foreigner in the midst of Nabokov's odd map of 1959's United States. What I did not fully anticipate, but wish I'd understood earlier, is that this book isn't just the "creation of perfect beauty, symmetry, strangeness... one of the great works of art this century" that Mary McCarthy proclaims it to be, grim as a cigarette cancer warning, on the cover. Before it is any of those things (and it is all those things), it's a comedy, and it is very hilarious.There are people on here who don't like this book, and I have a hard time understanding why. Does anyone not like things that are funny? This book is funnyandprettyandit is smart. This book is what nearly everyone is looking for in a significant other (I always forgot to add "nice" to that list, back when I was dating, much to my detriment, but that's a story for another day -- of course I could tell those stories here and stay on theme, but I note from other reviews that that predictable conceit has been done to death already), only much less work. You don't even have to look up all the words you don't understand; sometimes I did and sometimes I didn't, and it didn't seem to matter much in terms of my enjoyment of the book. Easy peasy! The only tough thing is finding two bookmarks, which is not really mandatory either, depending on your chosen approach.The most satisfying thing about this book was, for me, the sensation that it was changing and shifting shape as I read, like an animal that was squirming and growing, and I don't know, molting or metamorphosing something, right there in my hands. I don't have much tolerance for postmodern trickery and if I describe the device here it will sound high-concept in that way, but for me it felt organic. Okay, but: the novel comprises a forward, a 999-line poem in four cantos, and then is followed by notes to the poem. I read each of the four cantos in its entirety then its subsequent notes, which worked well for me. As I went the book moved and opened up and felt richer and more interesting, the opposite of the way I think a postmodern trick feels. The end result was an experience that was quite lovely at times, but above anything else, enjoyable and amusing and just really a lot of fun.So, the happy news is that I'm no longer intimidated by Nabokov, and now I want to read everything else by him! There is not any unhappy news, except that the world around us is still melting and right now pretty much sucks. I haven't had much success lately getting a break from this reality, andPale Firedid the trick with that, so at least I've reaffirmed that fiction's still better than drugs, when it's good, and this is.