I am so baffled at my response for the last three books I've read. It is so unlike me to read a Young Adult/College Romance book and actually like it. But I've come to the conclusion that if done right, for me at least, then I will enjoy it very much.This book definitely satisfied my love of an emotionally angst read. I do love those kind of reads very much especially if one of the characters is unfaithful to the other. Most people don't...I guess I'm not most people then. I think it brings much more drama and tension to the storyline so I liked this book a lot....but yet I didn't.This is a rather lengthy novel, coming in at over 500 pages. I have no problem with the length, I've read books close to 1000 pages and read them multiple times. It's the repetitive, drawn out relationship Kiera has with both Denny and Kellan that I started to irritate me, and don't even get me started on all that blushing! This girl must be the color of tomato all the time with the nonstop blushing she did. The littlest, most insignificant thing would make her blush. It really got on my nerves. There is a lot of fat that could be cut from this book, probably a good 100-150 pages and it would have been a 5 star read. Unfortunately, I started to loath this book because of Kiera and her no regard for Denny or Kellan's mental well-being. My heart ached for both Kellan and Denny. She wanted both men to herself regardless of who she hurt along the way. Well, girlfriend, you can't have your cake and eat it too, it just does not work like that.This is another book that left me unable to form a decent review. In the end, I loved to hate this book and would still recommend it to friends.One of my favorite singers is Gavin Degraw. His voice is so sensual and full of emotion, plus he writes his own music which makes me like him even more. I think this song would be great for this book. Gavin Degraw- She Holds A Keyhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-UqNrt...Or even this one! How beautiful is this? Gavin Degraw- Young Lovehttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WdzH0g...