First reread with my girlTanya, January 2015.Original rating: 4New rating: 4.5First review: just two months ago.Think I'm going to write another one so soon? Think again. All you'll be getting from me is another episode in theFever Freak's Facts of Life (abridged version).Fact #1: Mac went from pinky to badassyGood girl.Fact #2: JZBDo Ireallyneed to explain this again? You're joking right?! I thought so.Fact #3: Voice lessonsBecause JZB wants to know if Mac had sex with V'Lane. And because hopping is fun.Fact #4: chilling at the beach with V'LaneJust because.Fact #5: mother of all cliffhangers, part IIt's a good thing I already know what happens next.I rest my case. Until next time.***********Original review (November 2014)MacHalobuddy read starting November, 17 2014.This book was a DNF waiting to happen.Yes, you read that right, I almost DNFed Jericho Freaking Barrons.Silly little me.When I finished reading Bloodfever I couldn't get my hands on Faefever fast enough.I had to wait for a few days before I could read it and it was pure torture. So here I am, giddy with excitement as I start reading.The prologue was pretty good: I could have done without the recap about the previous books but I always enjoy Mac's narrative in the prologues for this series (she comes across as amuch stronger characterthan she actually is - more on that later). The first chapter picks up right where Bloodfever ended: with Mac on a Dublin street, after an unexpected encounter with the Sinsar Dubh. I have to say that,as first scenes go, this one was pretty phenomenal.It drew me right back into the story and led me into thinking I was in for some more Fever awesomeness. I was wrong.Things went downhill from there.The problem? Mac.I found her annoying in book 1 but by the end of book 2 I thought she was getting better and finally losing the sillyMs Pinky 'I was a spoiled child' Rainbows act. 3% into Faefever she was already annoying the hell out of me: Being stupid and superficial{Where the hell is Barrons?! }, saying silly (when not downright ridiculous) things. What bothered me most{Where the hell is Barrons?! }? Her constant blabbering to herself. Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. She just wouldn't stop.{Where the hell is Barrons?! }And in the meantime, NOTHING happened. It was just Mac and her stupid inner commentary. By 13% I'd had just about enough of the general silliness.{Oh look, here's Barrons! Yay! Wait, wait, where do you think you're going?! Come back this minute! Don't you dare leave me alone with that silly girl!}At 18% Mac referred to herself as "ruthless" and I thought I was going to choke on my tea. Ruthless? Mac? What a joke! Come on, my neighbour's bunny is more ruthless than she is! But I digress.So here we were, Faefever and I, on the road to disaster.And it was killing me because I SO wanted to like this book! The repetitions didn't help as KMM felt the need to re-hash some things over and over again. The only highlights here: Barrons, V'Lane and Christian.Thank you gentlemen for saving the day, I probably wouldn't have made it this far were it not for you. [Incidentally, I am now planning to move to Dublin as it seemshot, dreamy, drop-dead gorgeous guys seem to be roaming the streetsof the city. Sorry, I digress again] As I reached the 25% mark I was boiling up inside ("stupid stupid stupid stupid") and eye-rollingway too much for my own good.I just put the book down as I couldn't take it anymore and decided to momentarily give up on it.Here I have to thank my most awesomestFever Freaksfor their support because without them I would have probably DNFed the book. They kept telling me it would get better and that the rest of the series was absolutely mind-blowing so, after staying away from the book for a day, I decided to pick it up again.And guess what?HALLELUJAH, I see the light at the end of the tunnel!!!All it took was a dead body and suddenly Mac put some sense back into her little self!!A miracle I tell you!!After that it was pretty muchboom bam bang, scene after scene of pure awesomess!!! I don't want anyone to hate me here so I think I'll just spoiler tag this whole paragraph.(view spoiler)[JZB. The Viper. The V'Lanesummoning trick(he can put that thing on my tongue whenever he wants). Sifting inside the abbey with V'Lane. Queen Bitch Rowena. Barrons being positively ancient. The infamous MacHalo (Barrons laughing. Me dying).Voicelessons ("hey Barrons, willing victim here!"). Barrons &amp; Mac's conversation on the bike. Barrons, V'Lane and Mac on the street.Mac &amp; V'Lane beach hopping. Fiona the Bitch is back, yay! The Orb.The Walls. The Unseelie taking over Dublin.The church.(hide spoiler)]"Monsters and mayhem and massages, oh my."And here we come to the shocker/cliffhanger ending.I have to admit that part of it I saw coming. What with that conversation about(view spoiler)[rape during one of theVoicesessions:"Rape isn't something you walk away from. You crawl."(hide spoiler)]I could feelsomething really fishy was coming. Apparently some readers found the church scene particularly shocking while others gave up on the series because of it. I can't say it shocked me. It was horrible but I thinkKMM did a pretty fantastic job of it all. And you know what, I'm not that worried about Mac. Well she'll obviously be broken (I think) but the fact that she(view spoiler)[ate Unseelie(hide spoiler)]before it happened will obviously change the rules of the game.We'll see.So Mac and I are on the way to reconciliation.We're not great friends yet and I still don't think she kicks that much ass but I'm giving her the benefit of the doubt.I used to like V'Lane more than Barronsbut I now find myself trusting dear old Jericho more. He is still an ass but I don't think he's that evil. I might very well be wrong though.Who knows what the Constant Jackass will be up to next?So there you have it my peeps, this was lesson #1 in "how to get from almost-DNF to 4 star rating faster than the speed of light."