It's still too soon for me to write a review, but I need to talk about this book, so I'm just going to start sprouting nonsense and see where this thing will go. This will be a crap review (what else is new?) but I... gah! *flaps hands*Man, I'm loving these books, goddammit. What the hell is up with me and the Pri-ya 'tude? I just finished the third book and I already want to start reading it again. I am rolling around on the floor with these books in my arms, I want to clear Amazon's entire stock of this series and shove copies at everybody who comes within a 10-mile radius, screaming "WHY AREN'T YOU READING THIS RIGHT NOW" in their faces.I don't even understand why these books are taking over my life right now. I'm either reading these books or thinking about these books, and I'm pretty sure I'm dreaming about them too.mostly about Barrons pressing me up against the wall and pinning my arms above my head with one hand.Ilovehow much Mac's character is growing, I can see, feel her changing while I'm there, watching her! Right in front of me! *points maniacally*I just can't seem to find anything about her I don't like. I like her when she's Bookstore!Mac, I like her when she's ScrewYouBarrons!Mac, I like her when she's Hero!Mac.... And even Inventor!Mac. I reacted the same was as Barrons to her MacHalo. Priceless.Her constant battles with Barrons are delicious, although I felt bad when he completely trashed her attempts at being nice. I understand why she wants what she wants from Barrons, but I can also understand why he doesn't want to give it to her. That doesn't mean I can't cheer them on to go at it like bunnies in front of me.Also, this is really not the appropriate moment in the review to mention a minor but at this point, I'm barely capable of typing, because my hands keep reaching for my Kindle, but I'm growing very fond of Dani, d'aaaw, I smile every time I see her ^^See, I can't do OMGYAY reviews. Crap crap crap. *fangirls*I'm like a Jack Russel on LSD right now.