Mildred Taylor is a fantastic storyteller. I had previously readSong of the Trees, a short book that tells a story that comes just before the events ofRoll of Thunder, Hear My Cry. It's an intriguing and rather haunting book. But inRoll of Thunder, Taylor has more space to build a very powerful story of daily life and racism in Mississippi in the Great Depression. I imagine that there are few reviews of this book that don't also mentionTo Kill a Mockingbird. The settings and events have a lot of similarities, and the storytelling in each book is of the highest quality. Harper Lee's classic shows racism in the South through the eyes of a strong, young white girl who is just learning about the systemic problems; Taylor tells a similar story through the eyes of a strong, young black girl. Both perspectives fit together to form a satisfying whole.I'll mention two things that I particularly liked aboutRoll of Thunder, and one thing I didn't. First, I loved the strength of the Logan family members. They show this strength sometimes in resistance, sometimes in compassion, but always with hope that life will improve, and with an unshakeable commitment to everyone else in the family. I found this very inspiring, that each family member knows what his or her role is at any given time, fulfilling that role as best as they can.Second, I like the ever-watchful, guardian role that nature plays throughout the story. The imagery is not heavy-handed, but Taylor indicates that the trees have a voice and are watchful over the events that transpire. The wind and the rain also play a part that's more than simply a background environment. This quiet emphasis on nature helps convey themes of change and tradition, things that are lost and things that persist.What I didn't like about the book is the moments in which a character gives a speech that is, for my tastes, a little too precise and plain. Instead of letting the story show what Taylor wants us to learn from it (and the story is great at this), she sometimes has characters come right out and tell us what we should be learning--like when Mama explains racism to Cassie. I wanted the author to trust her story more--and I'm interested to see if Taylor became more comfortable with this as she continued to write about the Logans.That criticism aside, however, I do love this book and recommend it highly. I look forward to reading the rest of the Logans series.