But what is the present moment?! What does it involve? More than we know, of course. It involves the self, we know. Is that all we know? Me here, writing on my couch, and you, you there. But there is more! Here in this room there is more! A table, its wood, the details, labored, toiled upon for many hours, furnished from carpenters in years past in the great state of Maryland, land of our Great Queen Mary!; a beer sitting on the table, on a book on the table, sweltering, a Mexican beer!; it sits on Great Expectations, it (the beer) sweating onto Great Expectations, that novel from long ago, cherished in many hearts, comprising many things in its make-up, the trees for the wood, the wood for the paper!, the artwork on its cover, put fourth by a reliable but nervous young artist (it meant so much to him! and what a job he did!, it, his life's triumph, which to him was the world, was life made successful); the lives within that novel, the discernment, different for every reader, every line, every word a different experience, a different interpretation in each reader's mind; great expectations, we all have; the sun shining, the Corona, sweating, shining down upon the novel, and oh what the novel is comprised of!, no, no matter that I had to stop after its first five pages; no matter, no matter; in another life it breathed into me a new existence, a new life for which was already inside me; already governing me; one of many lives; many lives we all live, all in one moment, in less than a moment; what is a moment but a lifetime to some; what is in a moment but billions of moments all around the room (all around this room) all at once, all around the world, with the ants on the ground, scattering, they sing, they go about their business, and we think-- we think too much!; we think not enough!, and the molecules moving around on my fingernails; my fingernails! And here, here do I choose a comma, or a semicolon; or a question mark followed by an exclamation point?! What is in a moment? What is in a lifetime of moments? As the moments sing and the seasons change all the moments persist with their infinite moments within moments, that derive into other moments, into other moments, and we have to choose.... our choices! We take from this, and choose from that, and it affects the next choice and the next choice is affected by the choices before it, which affects the next range of choices and so on. And the times change, but they changed right now, so many times, just during this sentence they changed, everything changed, so many times!-- it is the '80s, gone past, it is the 1950s, here forever, it is 17th century Russia, and Christ, Christ is on the Cross!-- and I sit not on my couch, but at a desk; it is first grade, Mrs. Navy Hat's Class; I was so bad!-- so obnoxious I was!, running and throwing things, and not reading, and not knowing. Not ever knowing. The moments, they pass. They pass us all; and still we must choose....