Orlando is a biography written about a fictitious character Orlando which was inspired by Virginia's real life friend and lover Vita Sackville-West. The story spans over 300 years where Orlando's life changes from man to woman, from century to century.Gender difference is the main focus of the story. Through Orlando's transformation from man to woman, Virginia subtly addresses gender difference or in her view "gender neutrality". Virginia believed in gender neutrality affirming that there is a male and female side in every human being irrespective of the sex and varying in degree. When Orlando wakes up as a woman, she feels no difference or any awkwardness; but when she finally has to confront the society as a woman, Orlando understands there is a difference in self at least outwardly. Thus the author hints that the inward self of man and woman are more or less similar, and it is the society's rules of conduct that makes them different and categorizes them in to different genders.As a subplot Virginia dwells on the changes of literature and artists over the span of 300 years. Orlando could not publish his work in the early centuries but with social changes and the difference of style and forms of literature over the years makes once unpublished work finally see the publication light. Virginia is being satirical here, for she was a devotee of the great poets of the past and their strictly kept quality of writing. She points out how the quality is reduced and rules relaxed as the poets became the victims of publishing houses who wished to publish those that sell fast. She was quite sad over the plight of modern poets for she firmly believed that poetry should be "a voice answering a voice".Virginia has adopted a narrative style of writing for the most part of the story, but toward the end this style is slowly changed in to a conscious stream of writing. When I first attempted on Virginia Woolf, I shied away immediately as I couldn't get in to the rhythm of her conscious stream of writing. But in Orlando, since it was a gradual descent to conscious stream from the narrative style of writing, I was able to grasp and understand it better. And I was surprised to find that I like her conscious stream of writing.Overall, this was a fascinating read for me. Virginia truly surprises me with each book of hers.