Sorry peeps, all my gifs had to go otherwise my actual review would've added to it's super longevity, lol.-----------------------------------------------------------------------I didn't think Jennifer Armentrout's wittiness, cleverness and ingenuity could step beyond the already above-average line, but with Onyx, she somehow managed to! Now I always say this about Miss Armentrout's books, I don't know how she does it, but she manages to write a bestselling novel in a span of a few weeks/months that enchants her readers no matter what genre she's tackling. Onyx does exactly that ladies and gentlemen. It captures the reader and doesn't let go until the last word on the final page. As the plot thickens, you can't help but fall in love with the characters and their exciting loved. Obsidian showed us how sexy aliens can be, Onyx comes back with still-as-sexy-if-not-more aliens but this time with more intriguing mysteries, tons of plot twists, mind-blowing suspense, and hotter chemistry. Jenn has be salivating for book three.Katy, honestly, is one heroine that I don't think I can ever hate. Her attitude, wit, and strength have captivated me. If only every other young adult heroine was like this. I'm not embarrassed to say this might be the beginning of my first ever girl-crush, lol. Yes, as perfect as someone might seem, they have their flaws too. I didn't understand why Katy didn't seem to realize that when a guy flings a knife at you (even with good intentions), that's where you have to draw the line. Bu nope, she went on like he threw a pillow-pet in her face. She should've listened to Daemon *le sigh*. Another thing, it shouldn't have taken her a millennium to finally accept Daemon's feels, sheesh, it's not like she's dense. I love her because she's not perfect though. Other than that, Katy's character lived up to her nickname (kitten). Feisty but sweet, fierce and protective. And it helps that she's now just as kick-ass as the surrounding aliens. If I had to hand Daemon over to anyone, Katy would win, hands down. Speaking of Dae--*swoon*. Whoops, sorry, okay, I'm back in the world of the living now. That's right, where were we, Daemon Black was it? Heaven and Hell personified? He is aggravating but at the right moment, he can make a girl feel like she's floating above a garden of chocolate strawberries. This boy sure did bring sexy back with Onyx. If you thought what you saw of him in Obsidian was too-good-to-be-true, you're in for one hell of a ride once you get your hands on Onyx. This time Daemon's back still sexy and knee-weakening, but with a hint of sugar, no make that 1/2 cup. We've all seen Daemon's protective and charming side, but no one's seen his sweet one. That's right, Daemon and sweet, in the same sentence, astonishing isn't it? When he really puts his mind to it, he truly can be thoughtful, and in Onyx he does just that. He's determined to show Katy exactly what she's missing out on. Daemon was sexy, charming, fiercely protective, determined, and romantic in this book, it just made me fall in love with him even more.Love triangle you say? PUH-LEASE! As if you can have a love triangle with our boy Daemon in the mix. I absolutely despised Blake, every single body part of his belongs in jail, or in the woods, with wolves...big...furry...hungry ones. But you can't blame Katy for liking his stinky-lying-abusive ass. LOL, sorry, but yah, Blake just didn't do it for me, or Daemon for that matter. In fact, Blake just made Daemon and Katy's relationship in this book even more complicated, the butt-face. Speaking of KAMON (I like that shipping :D). Their relationship is rocky but it's like that rocky-road ice-cream...I think. Although it's bumpy and filled with tears and heart-breaks, they still have sizzling moments, and romantic ones. Libraries, Christmas trees, table-tops, bedrooms, you name it, Onyx has it. As for the other characters like Dee, and some of the other aliens. Welll, Dee's just as cute, Ash still has problems, and the rest of the aliens are still huge snobs, woohoo!Overall, Jennifer Armentrout never fails to amaze me with her writing and her characters. She made me want to move to West Virginia, I'm really starting to believe that it truly might be the land of lost models. If Opal is half of what Onyx was, then it's already got me twined around it's pages. I'm glad Miss Armentrout decided to take up writing, I'm not sure where I would be without Katy and Daemon in my thoughts.