So adorable!!"People who didn't heart books didn't understand".I would have to agree with Kat on this one, for anyone who isn't an avid reader will never understand the power of a single book and how it can be treasured among the finest jewels on earth. They are created from the guts, dreams and drive of an author. Printed and bound for our entertainment, for our pleasure and for our escape. They will invoke any range of emotions from laughing your ass off, to crying endless tears to making you so mad you feel the need to hit something. Hard. They have the power to make you swoon like alittlegirl and make you smile till your face falls off. The written world is a very strong bond between reader and the world the author creates.Dramatic enough? Sure, but I mean ever word of it. If your passion is to read greatness, then you my friends and fellow book lover are in for a real treat when you reach for Onyx by the sensational Jennifer Armentrout.Simpy put, this is UN-FREAKEN-BELIEVABLY AMAZING!!!!!Onyxbegins right after the aftermath ofObsidian...and that's pretty much all I'm gonna say about the story-line.See, I'm not sure how much I should mention since a series of events happen rapidly throughout the entire novel. It starts with what happens to Kat and doesn't stop till the book is over. The tiniest thing could be a potential spoiler. There are simply to many twist and turns that I never saw coming and I want the readers to experience everything Onyx and Jennifer brings to this incredible sequel. Trust me, I'd love to scream to the world about everything I've learned. The punches just kept coming and I don't think I was ever fully prepared. So all I'm gonna say about the story-line is that it's worth the wait. It's exciting and heart-pounding and Jennifer is a mad genius and I bow down to her greatness. I absolutely adored where she took the story, and if your fan of these books, I think you will too.I am however gonna gush about these amazing characters. Okay, I'm gonna gush about Kat and Daemon cause really that's all who matters the most (or at least to me).Kat really stepped up in this book. She's always been a great character, someone to be proud of and relate to, but I feel like she's taken us on a different level. She's a flawed character who makes lots of mistakes, but she learns from them and owns up. There were a few times I wanted to shake her straight, but her frustration (and ours) was justified so I could hardly fault her for them. Her book loving, book-boyfriend and video reviewing is another reason I find her so easy to relate to. She taps on the obsession side of any reader making her even more likable. That scene with Daemon helping out with her video was absoulty hysterical. But there is so much more to Kat. I love that she wants to stand by Daemon and Dee as equals, that she wants to protect the people she loves just as much as Daemon does. I love her strength, determination and her loyalty, but what I love about her the most is that she challenges Daemon every step of the way. Just as must as he challenges her.~It's no secret that Daemon Black is one of my all time favorite book crushes. He has far surpassed Edward Cullen and even Jace Wayland at this point and that's really saying something.Half sexy, half bastard. Equally delicious.I've always loved the punk-ass in him, but we get to see a side to him that can only be described as a privilege.My only complaint? Do the right-thing-by-you? Really Daemon?Really?!?!~head desk~But seriously, he's just such a blast of a character and I simply adore him to pieces.Oh! And one more thing, a jealous-Daemon has gotz to be the sexist dame thing I ever did see. So freaken cute!~We also meet a new character in this one, Blake. I had my suspicions throughout the book, and I guessed a few things right but I didn't guess them all. I wish I could say more but I'm afraid I'm gonna spoil something so I'll stop now. So all I'm gonna say is that I agree with Daemon wholeheartedly.Bottom line, I couldn't love a book more. Jennifer's writing is so so incredible. I don't even know how to describe how much I adore this women and her books. I laughed so much my face actually hurt afterwards. I jumped up and down screaming at my computer screen and paced my house trying to calm the hell down. This is the stuff that makes me love being a reader. It physically pains me to think about the wait for the next book, Opal. But I have no doubt that Jennifer will delivered another gem worth worshiping.The Lux series is one of the most addicting books I've ever read. It will always be treasured among my favorites!Special thanks to Entangled Publishing. I could kiss you!