Introducing: DEATHAw, ain't that smile warming your heart? Or is that the adrenaline rush because you, too, just want to get away from him? Severely misunderstood guy, that fellow.He's a beekeeper, a gardener, cat-lover, admittedly not very good with colours but his shades of black are very original! And he's active too! Never lazy, our protagonist, always riding around on his faithful mount, Binky.In case anyone was wondering: the scythe is for us normal mortals, whereas royalty gets the deluxe deal and therefore the sword you see him carrying in the picture above.So what is this old chap up to? Well, he's always looking out for the little guy (in this case it's a very tall and skinny boy). For in this 4thDiscworldnovel, that is the first to feature Death as a main character, Death takes on the afore-mentioned young lad as an apprentice. Mort (the lad in question) is an outsider since he always wants to help his family (farmers) but is very clumsy and good intentions only get you so far. After agreeing to the apprenticeship, Mort travels with Death to his domain and meets his servant, Albert, as well as his daughter, Ysabell (don't ask). After a while, he even gets sent to do 3 jobs on his own. Aaaaand you guessed it: that is where the trouble starts. Especially since Death decides to take a holiday shortly after (to do some fishing, dancing, gambling, drinking, and even tries a new profession). *lol*A number of inhabitants are being met in various corners of the Discworld (there is even(view spoiler)[a cameo by Rincewind(hide spoiler)]) during this fantastic romp to set things right and we learn a ton while we're at it. Because Pratchett is not only impeccable in making us laugh, but a champion in using INTELLIGENT humour and using it to address serious topics of our world. In this case: mortality, justice/compassion, death in all kinds of incarnations (depending on the culture), but also - importantly - life and that existing doesn't necessarily equal LIVING (that we need to make it count)!This was the very firstDiscworldnovel I've ever read and even the German translation back then was fantastically funny. It became instantly dear to me, prompting me to immediately buy the English original and reading it once again, but I had almost forgotten just HOW GOOD this was. After this re-read it is clear that it shall remain one of my all-time favourite books.