Holy Shai-hulud! It was definitely time for me to finally read this truly great classic of science fiction!I must say that I've watched the two mini-series,DuneandChildren of Dune, in my teenage years. Thus, I already had a grasp of the story, what it was about.However, nothing could have prepared me for the great writing style, the dense philosophy, ecology, and mythology of this story. It takes the term "world-building" to a whole new level.So what is this about?Well, that is not easily answered, but put very simply it is a book about a galactic empire and intrigue among the aristocratic houses within it. At the heart of the tale are the Emperor, the House Atreidis, and the House Harkonnen.An assassination sets into motion a very old prophecy and the uprising of a people that has been suppressed for generations.It's also about a planet that is merely a "factory" for melange (spice) and about the delicate balance of nature even in the most desolate of places.Now, considering where I live and current events here, I must admit that reading all the Muslim names and terms, but especially reading about Jihad, made me EXTREMELY uncomfortable. The Fremen, the natives of the planet Arrakis (the afore-mentioned "factory" for spice), are fanatically religious and (almost happily) willing to commit genocide. This should have really turned me off. However, the story has enough "westerness" on one hand (the way the aristocracy as well as certain story elements are portrayed) and Paul on the other to make up for it (Paul, despite being the prophesied saviour, does everything he can to prevent genocide and actually tries to reign in the people worshipping him). I liked the burden Paul carries and that he realizes it really is a burden (death) and was therefore torn between using his powers and knowing their limits, being chivalrous and ruthless at the same time.One of the greatest joys while reading this book (apart from the art of my edition which I shared with all of you through my status updates) was the ecology of the story. It was made clear in the introduction already, but even without that comment it would have been more than clear that Frank Herbert had the utmost respect for scientists and their work. One of the most impressive characters (Kynes) was a planetologist after all. It helps tremendously to bring this planet to life and make the reader trod from dune to cavern to city to any other place in this story. One feels the heat, the sand, the dryness of the place, and marvels just as much as any person within the story whenever there is a tiny bit of green presented or when a worm attacks.But I also enjoy the Bene Gesserit. Their plans are certainly ... ambiguous at best. Genetic perfection. But also the plan to combine all houses and therefore create a certain equilibrium (and exert control). It's cold logic and I'm strongly opposed to forced matches or "breeding" of humans in general, but one cannot help but wonder if events hadn't been more peaceful if everyone had played his/her part as planned.There is also a lot of heartbreak - both on the small and large scale.For example, I cannot stop thinking about the slave trade and how some people are treated by basically everyone here.Or like Irulan. In the book, Irulan has such a little active role, appearing just briefly at the very end of the tale but shining in that moment through her brave selflessnesss. Other than that, we only have quotes from various writings of hers about Muad'Dib and yet I felt so much pity for her. Sure, she lives the life of a princess with all its comforts (as opposed to the slaves or poor people of Arrakis) but although Paul is never cruel, he also doesn't love her (Irulan is just his key to the throne) and a loveless life is cruel enough in and of itself.Then again, there is Chani, having Paul's love but never going to have the chance to call herself his wife (another form of sacrifice, to say nothing of(view spoiler)[their first-born son they've lost(hide spoiler)]).Every detail in this epic story has its place and though the novel is more about a wide sweep of events instead of deep characterization, every person is unique and delightful in their own way (be it vile Baron Harkonnen - no, I don't have a problem with the main villain being gay - , weird little badass Alia, powerful but also kind of lost Paul, underestimated Fenring and his wife, or any one of the "background characters") and there is development (mostly for Paul of course).I cannot rave enough about this book, will watch the David Lynch movie tomorrow (since I haven't seen it yet), re-watch the mini-series for comparison and old times' sake, and (at some point in time) definitely re-read the book.