I've been burned so many times by angel books; Hush, Hush, Fallen, Angelfire, and what have you, so I was quite set to hate this book. I thought, "let's just give it a chapter" and then what do you know. That one chapter turned into five and then ten and all of a sudden I just could not stop reading. I *had* to know what happened next and my god the amount of times I screamed at the book for the girl to HOOK UP WITH THE GUY was so mind boggling. I could not put this book down. It had an uber strong addictive enchantment over me that couldn't be broken.If you were looking for some quality book with angels in it, I think you might have just found it.I can't tell you how much I loved this book. Clara is awesome. She already knows she's part angel in this book so there's no slow burn of her finding out her deep dark origins which would normally already be obvious from the beginning. Yes, it's explained how she actually found out because, you know, having a back story is always important. I love that while she's blessed with good looks, an ability to do things just right, and what have you she's not perfect. She has to learn how to use her growing powers and *develop* in to them. And this is not an overnight fix either. She has to work for it throughout the book. And surprising as it may be, she's not entirely perfect. And she's not a walking angst-fest either. Confused, cautious, and perhaps distant for her own good, yes, but not a sullen I-want-to-slap-you-so-hard because you won't wake up type of girl.The romance. My goodness. I can't tell you how much I was so emotionally invested in it. I have never cheered so hard for a romantic pairing in my life. I was literally raving the whole time with "What are you doing? Go with HIM! HIMMMMMMMM!!!!" And when you read the premise for this book it TOTALLY leads you in the wrong direction and I am so glad it went the way it did in the book. He's a sweet, down to earth guy, and he called her "carrots"! If you don't love him after that whole Gilbert Blythe-vibe there is something wrong! The love triangle was kind of... different to say the least. It's not something you're expecting and it's not this swinging back and forth deal. The whole romance was DEFINITELY one-sided and you like both guys but well, the other guy is just much better. Sorry. Haha.I love how her friends were portrayed. They weren't just props for the main girl. They both had their own sort of subplot going on and I loved to see that they weren't just goodie cardboard cutouts that supported Clara in everything or were just there to force her to hook up with some guy. They all had independent goals that they strove for and weren't stupid dunderheads that served no purpose than to provide comic relief. All of her friends had life and contributed something to the pages. There was one moment when I wanted to smack one of them for giving her poor advice but I don't care, it ended the way I wanted it to anyway.Unearthly is fabulous. There's lots of tension, a real plot that carries throughout the book, an AWESOME romance that isn't overly done, and has you CRAVING, just CRAVVVVVVVVING for the sequel. I have to get me a finished copy of this book.In a word? AWESOME. Get this book now.