I wake up the next morning in Beyonce's body.3.5 stars. I think I hated this book, even though I was drawn into it like a moth to a flame. And by hate, I mean that I did like the book, but found myself frustrated because I was forced to question every single damn thing. There was something about the entire story that suffocated the hell out of me. Myheadhurt from trying to figure out how all of 'this' was supposed to work. Myhearthurt from the presumed hopelessness of the situation.Yet, I still kept reading.There has to be some talent hidden in the storytelling if I find myself continuing to work my way toward an ending of which I'm uncertain will be positive or negative. The closer I got to the end, the more worried I became.Yet, I still kept reading.If there was ever a book which would make for a great book club discussion, this would probably be it. The range of opinion would quite possibly be vast. People who tend to want specifics for every detail would pick everything apart, while the dreamers would want to imagine how to change the situation.So much happiness can only make me sad.Our main character in this book is never described as male or female. "A" is a being who wakes up every day in a different body. This person is the very definition of "walking a mile in someone else's shoes." Mainly it's because A has never had shoes of his/her own.This is not my body, but it's the body she wants. I feel like a pretender.I often tend to put myself in the place of the lead character in stories and find myself wondering what I would do in the same situation. To be completely honest, I know that I could probably never survive a life in which I never was allowed to have at least one person to call my own - whether it was a parent, sibling, friend or lover. How could ANY one person survive waking up every morning in a different body without wanting to finally give up on life? Even knowing that A had always lived like this and knew nothing else, I kept wondering how A was not constantly envious of at least some of the people that A had inhabited.So of course, love would have to come in and complicate things.The connection between A and Rhiannon was bittersweet. Their friendship was a challenge every step of the way.I never want to stay. I'm always ready to leave. But not tonight. Tonight I'm haunted by the fact that tomorrow he'll be here and I won't be. I want to stay. I pray to stay. I close my eyes and wish to stay.Other than having to find my way out of a paper bag by the time I was finished reading, I don't have any major complaints other than one. At times, there did seem to be some repetition with a few of the author's opinions. I would have preferred the sexuality side of the story to have been a touch more organic with the surroundings. The characters were who they were. That should have been the beauty of it all - the varied cast of characters. I would have appreciated the variety much more if I didn't feel like I was being lectured to question my beliefs on sexuality (when I hadn't given any sort of opinion in the first place). This book felt like a bit of a soap-box at times.In the end, I was glad that I'd read about the journey of A, but found myself frustrated that he/she was a better person than I wanted him/her to be at times. Where was A's one selfish moment? When you get to keep nothing in life, would you for at least ONE day, choose to do what you wanted, even if it meant screwing with the path of someone else? I'm pretty sure that I would.I want to get back to her. I want to get back to yesterday.