This wasmagnificent. It was a heart-stopping read. It was too realistic without being non-fiction.A boy who changes bodies every day. A girl who's helplessly in love with someone who doesn't return her love. What can these two have in common? Everything and nothing.It's a heartbreaking love story told from the perspective of a boy who's only ever known impermanence. Every day he wakes up in someone else's body, he gets to be that person, he gets access to their memories and to their lives and no one realizes what's happened when they wake up the next day. They only get that vague feeling that yesterday was an uneventful day.He calls himself A. This is the only way he's going to be able to hold on to some part of himself. The only way to keep remembering that he's not inexistent, the only way to remind himself that he's a real person, a human being who cannot do anything about the way his life is."It's just - I know it sounds like an awful way to live, but I've seen so many things. It's so hard when you're in one body to get a sense of what life is really like. You're so grounded in you who you are. But when who you are changes every day - you get to touch the universal more. Even the most mundane details. You see how cherries taste different to different people. Blue looks different. You see all the strange rituals boys have to show affection without admitting it. You learn that if a parent reads to you at the end of the day, it's a good sign that it's a good parent, because you've seen so many other parents who don't make the time. You learn how much a day is truly worth, because they're all so different. If you ask most people what the difference was between Monday and Tuesday, they might tell you what they had for dinner each night. Not me. By seeing the world from so many angles, I get more of a sense of its dimensionality."If you read this make sure that you are ready for the world to change forever. Be sure that you want your perspective of life to be changed. Make sure that you're not retrogressive. Read this and get ready to be changed.