Why do you read books?I read books because they transport me somewhere else. I go on adventures, fall in love, grieve, laugh... I find best friends, and sometimes I lose best friends. This is the first time that I've read a book and actually felt alone... lonely.Imagine, you have nobody of your own. Every day you have a new mother, new father, new life... you drift from body to body, without any real roots or anything that you can call your own. The MC, 'A', kept trying to convince Rhiannon, and us as the reader, that 'A' lived a full life. That 'A' had experiences and a world larger than an average person because 'A' got to live 6000 different people's lives. But how could you? How could you really live without any true connections?And when you read a book about a character that wakes up every day in the body of someone new, what ending do you wish for? 'A' is in love. For the first time 'A' has told someone what kind of life 'A' leads. (Please note that I continue to say 'A' because 'A' has no stated gender. One day A's a male, one day A's female. 'A' just is.) Do you hope that 'A' finds a way to keep a body, so that 'A' can live life with Rhiannon? 'A' does deserve everything that an average everyday individual has. 'A' is a good person, and up to meeting Rhiannon, 'A' has made sure to leave each host body with the least amount of impact possible. 'A' has a conscience, and feels guilt when something about the hosts life is affected by the visit. So, while you can't help but hope that 'A' gets to live life, you also hate the idea that 'A' would give up that integrity to accomplish it. It's an awkward position, as the reader, because you want a happy ending, but you don't want to compromise the moral compass that has guided 'A' thus far. Already 'A' is doing things more and more questionable out of love for Rhiannon. You don't blame 'A'. Remember, 'A' wants tobe, and 'A' IS a person who does things that 'A' normally wouldn't out of need for a connection, 'A' aches for it. It reminded me a bit ofStolen: A Letter to My Captorin that way. You know how it SHOULD end, but it's not necessarily how you want it to end.Am I making it sound depressing? Because 'Every Day' wasn't depressing, per se. It was... a book about hope. Well, actually, it was more about hoping for hope. And it was about selflessness.And it made me think, and likely will leave an impression on me long after I finish this review. (Thanks Stacia, you were right. This definitely was a 'Wendy' book.)4.5 stars