Vampire Academyis a series I am very familar with. This was a re-read for me considering I have basically been reading these books every year since I was 13 (meaning six years). Coming back to this series is like a warm hug as every character is familar, the plot is familar, the tone is familar. I was glad this re-read was successful as a lot of re-reads I have done this year have left me disappointed.Vampire Academyis a well-known series, whether becasue the covers are ugly or because of the kickass characters or the movie flopI don't know. This series, however, displays some kickass female characters and some kickass female friendships (which, how often do you really see in YA?) I won't even try to summarise the story because I'll probably accidentally throw spoilers in, I just recommend picking up this series. Ignore the ugly covers.Pick it up.As a warning this review will be short fortworeasons. 1 - it's hard to express my feelings in words about this series so I will probably just use gifs. 2 - I am being barked at in the face right now as I type this out. Also, I am using gifs from theVampire Academymovie, but that does not mean I really enjoyed said movie.CharactersRoseOh Rose, our kickass female main character. I could go on forever about Rose. About how absolutely empowering it is to have a female character whocanandwillkickass. I mean she's not perfect, she slut shames constantly and is a hypocrite in some aspects. But, she's a smart ass who will give a lashing to anyone who gives her crap and her main goal is to protect her best friend, Lissa.Rose is a Dhampir, which is basically someone who is half Moroi (vampire) and half human. She is one of the few females training to become someone who protects the Moroi, the rest labeled "blood whores" - most commonly so by Rose. I really enjoyed watching Rose train throughout the book and get her strength back, watching the devlopment she has from reckless teenager to dedicated warrior.DimitriDimitri is another Dhampir, someone who is an official Guardian (meaning he protects the Moroi as a career). I'll be the first to admit I'm not a Dimitri fan. I don't like him. At all. I find him creepy, unprofessional and slightly unnerving. He is painted to be a God. To be the best Guardian there is, basically. However, I found his stoic response a lot of the time an asshole move that had me rolling my eyes a lot of the book (and every time I read it). I also get slightly unnerved over his feelings for Rose, it is the student-teacher relationship that has me cringing at the pure idea their relationship.Now, thats not to say I don't ship Rose and Dimitri. I do, I love their progression through the novels and as I re-read this series I think that will become obvious throughout my reviews. It is, however, just the introduction of Dimitri that rubs me the wrong wayevery timeI re-read this series.ChristianChristian is a Moroi who has the affinity over fire, and is one of my favourite characters in this series. He rivals Rose in every way and the pair of them are absolutely hilarious when they are interacting. I always get a good laugh from the banter exchanged from the pair of them throughoutVampire Academy.I can't say too much more about his character, however, without spoiling what happens in this particular book. I mean, I may be able to, but I don't really want to.LissaLissa is another Moroi, and Rose's absolute best friend. The pair of them have been through thick and thin, which includes being in the car crash which murdered Lissa's entire family. Due to this experience, or so it's hinted at, the pair of them have a bond. Now, I don't mean they've connected through the loss of people close to them. No. I mean, Rose can literally feel what Lissa is feeling. It is a big strange, yes, but the more we see it through Rose's perspective the more interesting it really gets.Lissa is an incredibly complex character, she has never developed a particular skill over one of the elements like Moroi are supposed to. She struggles with who she is and she has a stronger compulsion over people than others of her kind. Her progression, downfall, and rise throughout the book are incredible to watch and it only gets more intense the further along you get in the books.World-BuildingThe world-building in the book is incredibly easy to follow. It is set in modern society with a few twists to place the paranormal creatures. Rose also explains what each word means, which doesn't leave you confused and struggling to grasp what a "Moroi" is.PlotThe plot?WritingMead draws you in with her easy writing style, it's easy to fall in love with and easy to follow the story as it progresses. It's creative, of course, but it isn't complicated in the way you have to fully stop reading to understand the joke that is being made to you. She is alsoamazingat foreshadowing.OverallOverall, if I can continue to love this book after six years of re-reads I think I am highly advised to tell you to pick it up.