This is a book that tugs at the heartstrings &amp; that looks into your very soul by seeking out all human emtions, it is a literary masterpiece that is beautiful &amp; completely engaging. I was lost within the storyline after only a few pages, being temporarily mesmirised and stunned by the horrific accident &amp; danger of horse riding VS modern day transport. I have had many a horse riding accident so i could therefore relate and empathise with Grace easily, but certainly not to the extent that her accident had on her life which was turned upside down. It is a story about courage and bravery and how one mother was prepared to do anything for the love of her daughter, flesh &amp; blood who is so much a part of her and how important Grace is to her. It gives the reader an insight into culture and how the town juxtaposes the city in its entire, drawing you into this world of ranch life &amp; community. It is a story that highlights the importance and significance of unity and of family and how diverse culture &amp; lifestyles are from one place to another. This book is not only close to my heart because of Pilgrims journey but also because i could empathise and understand Grace &amp; her relationship with her mother and how this can be translated into our own lives. After reading this novel i contemplated all that was around me and being apreciatve of not only my family but of everything within my life, as at times anyone can take things for graunted and this story reminds you of how precious things are that we easily overlook. I was empowered and enthused by Grace's mother and her conviction &amp; determination and strength, as it is a stark reminder of how hard life can be and that we never know what is around the corner. This is a book that is character-driven, fast-paced and full of action and one that is very touching &amp; emotive throughout. It is a tale that you can not only easily relate to as a reader because it covers all aspects of human emotion and occourances within daily life, but that it is a book that leaves you with many messages and thoughts to really think about. I was left wanting to read more and i was also left with the satisfaction of having finished a really enjoyable book that had made me even more apreciative &amp; thoughfull of many things within life. If you love horses then you will enjoy reading Pilgrim's journey but The horse whisperer is also a book that anyone can read and enjoy, because it is so universal and a book that one can get lost with. Beautiful, poinant, heartfelt and spellbinding i was captivated by this novel from begining to end.