This book is a charming retelling of the story of Beauty and the Beast. The author added some twists and turns to make the story differ from the original version. And this is what that makes it an enjoyable book.Kyle Kingsbury is the son of a famous and wealthy newsman, and he also has what it takes to make girls swoon over him - good looks. His life is perfect, yet deep inside, he isn't. When he plays an evil trick on a fat, ugly girl named Kendra, he is cursed to become what he really is - a beast. He is given a chance to reverse the curse - he must fall in love with a girl who loves him back within 2 years. Or else, he will remain as a beast forever.The story is set in a modern New York, and this is definitely refreshing. After Kyle turns from a handsome, popular kid into an ugly, terrifying beast, his father tries to bring him to seek medical help, but they come to no avail. At last, Rob Kingsbury decides to refrain his son in a secluded area so that no one would notice his presence.To me, Kyle isn't really a bad guy, he just likes to act like he is. I always think that there is still some goodness in him. At first, he denies the beauty of a rose and think of it as a cheap, ugly flower, but when he becomes a beast, he cares for the roses he planted as if they were his treasure.This story tells us not to judge someone based on their appearance, but rather what they really are on the inside because what you see is not necessary real. Looks do not determine everything, so even if you don't have an attractive mien, that doesn't mean that you're going to be despised and shunned by others. As time goes by, others will learn to see the goodness/evil in your heart. If you have a kind, caring heart - then you are beautiful.Will Kyle finally find his true love and break the curse? Will he change his attitude towards the better side? Will he learn to observe the beauty in his daily life? Read this book to find out.I'll end my review with a quote from Beastly:"Those who do not know how to see the precious things in life will never be happy."