Imagine a world where every kind of supernatural creature was walking out in the streets without a care in the world about being seen by a human.Well, after a disease (enhanced by biodrugs because of course us, humans, are pretty stupid at the end of the day, okay) wiped out most humans and the supernatural was forced to come to light since they were immune to it, the world is mostly run by the supernatural considering how they've come to outnumber us. And overpower us. There's definitely that, too.Witches, vampires, faeries, pixies, warlocks, demons.. Oh and much much more, I won't even delve into the kinds.Rachel Morgan is part of an organization that is responsible for handling rogue supernatural creatures. It's IS. Inderlander Security. Inderlander are called those with special abilities &amp; generally every kind of creatures is part of the supernatural world. There's also the human counterpart of IS which is the FIB, and they handle different matters and anything they can't handle they hand on to the IS.Rachel Morgan isn't happy with her life. She works, works, work and she does nothing else but work. She doesn't have friends. She doesn't have a boyfriend. Until one day her boss decides to fire her and since Rachel and Ivy, a hot, tempered living vampire made a pact to leave the IS together, her boss puts a price on her head for taking Ivy with her. Yes, no one can ever leave the IS. You'll either be fired or you'll leave on your own and have your head served on a plate in a few months on the boss' desk.Ivy is one hell of a vampire. She's a living vampire, meaning she is a vampire who has the 'virus' of vampirism but hasn't still died. Meaning she's not so bloodlusty as the dead vampires and that she can go out into the sun. In Rachel's team there's also Jenks, a pixy who's snarky and about all kinds of awesome.I haven't told you what these 3 are trying to do together. Well, let me give you a clue. Someone is creating and shipping off biodrugs which is the very reason of the extinction of half the human populace. They know exactly who he is. The problem is that they do not have enough evidence to incriminate him.A very captivating novel and very well-written, I'll admit. With snarky &amp; sharp characters who are funny and work amazingly as a team. The author manages to make it fast-paced without leaving out anything and accomplishes to satisfy all of my expectations. I didn't have high expectations but I definitely do have those for the next installment in the series. I hope it's as thrilling as this was.