I wrote this review quite some time ago but I had to come back and improve it a little after reading several other books of this wonderful series. I am officially a big fan!I read many positive reviews before picking up this book and I was afraid that I might be too old for actually enjoying this. I was WRONG! This book was such a pleasant surprise and definitely deserves all the positive reviews.I didn't find the beginning of this story very original but my opinion changed very quickly as the story developed. This book begins the story of Will, an orphaned boy with his own dreams and insecurities who struggles with who he is and who he wants to be. The entire series is a tale of his growth into a young confidant man, finding his right place in the world.I have to say that the author does a brilliant job with his young characters' gradual growth. Many characters are slowly added to the story as the series progresses and it's quite wonderful to see them all change and help each other grow, from young ones to grownup adults. There are many memorable characters that I have come to really like!Back to the story of this book, the most pleasant surprise for me was when the book switched from Will's point of view to Horace's. I did not expect that at all! The story immediately became very different and unique and showed great potential for improvement. It was quite wonderful to read about such realistic characters in a well-thought fantasy world. Thanks to the POVs, we get to see that Will, while a very lovely and pleasant boy, isn't really an angel. He too can be mean or selfish. We also find out that the boy he doesn't like is not the devil himself. Life isn't exactly black and white and it moved me that this book managed to show that with such a simple but fascinating story. It's nice that we also get to know what's in other characters' heads which definitely makes the story much more pleasant and easier to follow. I did not find the story rushed and characters grow the way they should. The main characters are children after all and it's nice that they stay as one while growing considerably and they don't end up taking missions to save the world single-handedly. I am always annoyed when that happens and there isn't a single adult in the big picture!What I loved the most while reading this book was the relationship between Will and Horace AND how it gradually changed and matured, becoming something very special at the end.The Master-Apprentice relationship between Will and Halt is also very adorable and I have come to really like this gloomy ranger who never smiles!XDThe ending scene was perfect for this story. I find it very beautiful when young individuals come to see the truth of their existence and choose it over their childish dreams or who they think they should be to find any acceptance or approval. I recommend this book to those who are looking for a fun and light fantasy book with beautiful concepts such as true friendship and honor hidden in the pages of it.