3.8 stars, rounded up for a promising start. Flanagan appeals to adults but is fairly kid-safe, too. No sex or strong cursing, but some minor expletives. The plots are not terribly complex, and much of the action is telegraphed in advance, to some extent. Lots of good vocabulary / word choices.This is the opening salvo of an ongoing adventure series set in a world of castles and fiefdoms, reminiscent of medieval England, Scotland, etc. It was probably written for teens, but I enjoyed it. Told in 3rd person omniscient, there are only 260 pages creating a swiftly flowing pace. (Long books wear me out).There is a good map and a fun app at the author's website:http://www.worldofjohnflanagan.com/ra...There's little magic (so far), just fantastical beasts and a powerful dark master-mind pulling their strings. The plot is solid but not confusingly complex.There are schoolyard bullies, tension-filled battles, brains, strategy, friendship, loyalty, courage. There's humor, too, and decent dialogue. Adults are likable, and apprentices look up to them.The five 15-year-old apprentices are Will (ranger apprentice), Horace (warrior school), George (scribe), Alyss (diplomat), and Jenny (cook).Quibbles:Sometimes the writing style feels slightly pedestrian, but the plot carried me along anyway. I will probably go on to the sequel, if the next book isn't too expensive.Okay narration by John Keating, but I found myself reading the ebook instead, mostly.A spoiler-free view of the entire series, copied from an Amazon review:"The main characters begin as children but grow up quickly throughout the series. Unlike too many "young adult" books, the adults are more interesting than the children, and the children realize that becoming an adult is something to strive for rather than resist.All of the books are very funny as well as exciting. The "good guys" all have a wry sense of humor (obviously the author's as well), while the "bad guys" are typically overbearing and too serious. Children also fail to grasp the humor; growing up is shown as (in part) a process of coming to understand (and use) a rather dry wit with one's friends."