Many years ago (let's not talk about just how many years) after finishing school I spent a year as an au-pair in New Zealand. What do you do while the kids play and everything is already cleaned? You read! So the library became one of my most regular appointments. Since my English back then wasn't nearly as good as it is now I stuck mostly to YA literature. One of the first series I stumbled upon was the 'Ranger's Apprentice' Series by John Flanagan. I remember enjoying them a great deal even if I don't exactly remember how many books were already out (not many, as I mentioned, it's been a long time :P). Recently, I stumbled upon the first book at the local library here in Germany and decided to give it another try to see if I still enjoy it.And I do! I still had fun reading it! And I'd likely continue it once my library has the others back.The first book in the series 'The Ruins of Gorlan' introduces as to Will, the MC and spoilerThe Ranger's Apprentice:P. He's an orphan and grew up at the castle together with other orphans whose fathers had fallen serving the kingdom. Now, at fifteen, the orphans will be send to learn a profession. Will, a scrawny guy, hopes to become a knight just like his father was, but given his stature that doesn't work out. Instead he is chosen by Halt, the local Ranger, to become his apprentice. The book mostly deals with Will (and in parts the other orphans) settling into their new lives. Another layer of story that begins to come into play towards the end of the story and will likely become more important in the following books, is an impending war.What makes or breaks this book is if you are able to identify with the characters. I enjoyed them a great deal. I liked Will, I liked Halt, I had special soft spot for the Baron who was always depressed because nobody understood his jokes xD, I even liked Horace. Most importantly I enjoyed the relationships those characters had with each other and all the background informations about the Rangers we got.One weakness I did find was the slightly lackluster world building when it came to the bad guys. It felt a bit like he was being evil for the sake of being evil, but since his role in this book was very minor that might change in the later books. Also the monsters seemed a bit monsters for the sake of being monsters. Scary but with no motivation of their own, basically just creepy looking weapons. But then again, this is clearly not a adult fantasy series. I'd put it somewhere between middle grade and YA.All in all it was a quick easy read that made me smile and sniff and sweat (I call that three important 's' :P).One more tiny thing. This book clearly inspired me a lot when I first read it. I found notes on an epic fantasy story I made years ago and there are some strong strong similarities. What better compliment could I make a book than that it inspired me to design my own world (even if it never went anywhere :P).