This is pureSarah Dessen. It's a comfort to read her work, because you know you are going to come away with something to think about.I'm afraid I didn't like this one as much as the others. It's because well... it feels a little like I'm reading the same story. Tons of others have mentioned it, but she seems to be sticking to a very strict formula. Which I wouldn't mind too much if the characters didn't seem so similar. They all are so reserved and issue driven. One of the reasons I think that it didn't work so magically in this one was because Eli (the love interest)doesn't get explored enough. He's dealing with some truly heavy stuff and we do see glimpses of vulnerability but it's not enough. Does that make sense?Butpleasedon't mistake my irks with it as a bad review for the book. IloveSarah Dessen's writing. Even though she tends to use the same storyline it works because she knows how to work it. One of the things I was thrilled to see was the subplot story of Auden's baby sister and her new stepmother Heidi. We don't see this relationship much in young adult books and it made me smile to see Dessen use her own life experiences and insert them in her writing. You know what they say, write what you know.As always the minor characters are pitch perfect. My favorites in this one were Maggie and Adam. Everything is always done so well: character development, dialogue, growth it's no wonder people love Dessen's work. All the symbols like the bike, quest, beach, are done in a way to make you get attached it to it so much, and think "yeah I TOTALLY get that!" By the way I thought the idea of going on a quest soundedawesomeand was a real unique way of getting Auden and Eli to really connect. It was funny to see all the cameo appearances from people in previous books. The funniest being Jason (Macy's old boyfriend in theThe Truth About Forever). Dessen should totally write a book about him. I appreciated the way Auden and Eli meet. Most of the time they seem to click easily, but it was a bit harder for them so that was a welcome change. I hated Auden's dad. What a selfish guy, but one of the main lessons of this book is that people can change. I want to mention all the minor characters (like always there is a lot going on) but I simply can't. You'll just have to delve into the pages yourself.Brilliant idea of setting a lot of the book at night. It gives the book and the conversations that extra special touch. Even though it was not one of my favorites do read it. It will make you look at growing up differently.