I had been meaning to read The Poisonwood Bible for the longest time, and it didn't disappoint. It is an epic family saga of vibrant, memorable characters and the enormous challenges they face.The story begins in the late 1950s. Nathan Price, a stubborn Baptist preacher, decides to take his wife Orleanna and their four daughters to the Belgian Congo, in an attempt to convert the natives to Christianity. The scale of the task soon becomes apparent. The family take up residence in an extremely poor village, where food is scarce and the climate is brutal - a long way from the American luxury they are used to. This alien environment tests their resilience to the very limit. And though they are initially welcomed by the locals, Nathan's missionary efforts are met with no little resistance. Some of the girls adjust to the new way of life better than others, but it seems as though there is always another obstacle for them to tackle.Each chapter is narrated by a different family member, except for Nathan. It's a clever idea, as we discover the impact that this abusive, monstrous man had on his victims. The voice of each Price daughter also becomes clear. Rachel, the eldest, is self-absorbed and materialistic. Leah is smart and the most sociable of the siblings - she worships her father even though they have blazing rows. Adah, her twin, is disabled since birth, and remains mostly silent, though we learn from her thoughts that her mind is sharp and poetic. Ruth May is only five years old, yet she can pick up on the worry and unease of her mother. Orleanna's account looks back on their life in Africa with sadness and regret, and hints at a major tragedy that befell the family during their stay.The event, when it occurs, is indeed shocking. The story then proceeds for over 150 pages, and this is my one criticism of the book - it does feel a little long-winded. I suppose Kingsolver wanted to show how each of the Prices coped with such misfortune and moved on with their lives. However, this is a minor complaint. The Poisonwood Bible is one of those unforgettable reads. It examines weighty themes like race, religion and politics from so many angles and manages to wrap it all up into such a rich and compelling story. It's an ambitious, powerful yarn that Barbara Kingsolver spins and she pulls it off with real aplomb.