I can't...I can't..I CAN'T WAIT A WHOLE FREAKING YEAR FOR THE CONCLUSIONLet me just say, if Leo Valdez dies, someone is going to pay...That's not creepy right?(there are a ton of edits that I keep adding, so check below)So, I finally decided to add to this.My predictions (these are just random predictions)1. Frank dies.Frank is going to die. His life is tied to a frigging STICK. Not to mention the whole "To storm or fire thing" His sense of duty is so much stronger than Percy, who's fatal flaw is loyalty. My guess is that someone is going to jeopardize some plan which is going to make Annabeth get into mortal danger. I wouldn't be surprised if Percy is vital to defeating the giants, but because Annabeth is in danger, he tries to go off and save her. Because Frank has his sense of duty, he'll sacrifice himself to the greater good. Again, these are all random speculations2. This relates to the prophesy above. If Frank dies, then my guess is that Hazel will die again and then they'll be together. Technically, Nico broke the rules by bringing her back to life, but Gaea also broke that rule by opening the Doors of Death. I'm guessing that to make things completely right, Hazel has to return to the Underworld. And if Frank dies, then they'll both be happy.More to come, I'll edit later.EDIT March 3rd 2014Less than a year you guys!More predictions3. Leo makes some deal with Gaia that sacrifices himself and saves the the others. BUT this deal will *hopefully* somehow make him end up with Calypso. I don't think Riordan is quite that mean to finally give Leo a love interest but doesn't let Leo ever see her again.4. Percy ends up with Annabeth living in the Roman camp. This is one of those speculation ones that could end up either way. I feel like Riordan is setting it up for Percy to be the leader of both camps. Also, you can tell that Annabeth really wants to live in the Roman Camp5. Reyna dies. These kinds of books always have one character already labelled for death and I'm sad to say that Riordan is given Reyna that label. I feel like killing Reyna will solve several problems. These kinds of books always have to have that noble sacrifice. But Reyna also has created some messy strings that Riordan's going to have to cut. Like I said, I feel like Riordan is trying to move Percy into a position where he's kind of an overseer for both camps, I'm sure he'll give Frank(if he lives) or Jason the job as the second Praetor.Alrighty, that's all for now. Look out for another edit soon!