Review coming soon!6th October, 2014(Sorry in advance if I sound creepy here...I was sleep deprived)Can anyone sleep right now? Am I the only one here hyperventilating? Am I the only one who think that life is totally unfair that I have TWO tests on Wednesday?*sigh* Gotta wait till the weekend. Oh the weekend.. so far away. My feels :*(But seriously, can't wait to KNOW what FRIGGING HAPPENS NEXT!!! Because it's not just any book, but a Heroes of Olympus book. And not just Heroes of Olympus book, but THE Heroes of Olympus book. It's THE Blood Of Olympus! THE GRAND FINALE!!!! THE MAJOR BATTLE OF THE GREEK AND THE ROMAN DEMIGODS! THE LAST QUEST OF THE SEVEN AWESOMESAUCE HEROES that we have come to know for so many years. Can you guys even believe it's been YEARS?? Gosh darn it!10th Nov. 2013So, I've Read the House of Hades yesterday. Is it unfair that i want this book RIGHT NOW???Pre-Reading ReviewYou know when i first heard the name of the book, the first thing that went into my mind was 'That sounds....bad'Well, since the book isdefinitelynot coming since next year's fall (I know, TORTURE!), i've decided to predict a bit about the next book, as well as my expectations.1. About the Prophecy of SevenSeven Half-Bloods Shall Answer The CallDuh! Seven demigods, now heading to Athens, who have answered the challenge by Gaia and her now~all~of~them~alive~and~haughty Giants.To Storm Or Fire The World Must FallHmm...Storm could mean either Jason or Percy or both of them combined and Fire could only mean Leo. The world as i've already thought(i swear i knew this could happen before HoH) could be Gaia. But as piper is guessing, if Gaia would fall by one, then the other one would die (Lets hope that does NOT happen).The 'fire' could also be somehow related to Frank's wooden-stick.An Oath To Keep With A Final BreathI can only guess now that its the Leo's oath on the River Styx that he'd take out Calypso from her prison island. Aside from that, there have been made some promises, but notoaths.About the final breath. You know, i have this faint guess that this either means that Leomightbecome an immortal (meaning his last 'mortal' breath) OR Calypso becoming mortal (Calypso's last 'immortal' breath). If Calypso became mortal, her island might get destroyed, but she'll be able to leave Ogygia because she won't be a nymph anymore (she's called the Queen of nymphs in greek mythology)And Foes Bear Arms To The Doors Of DeathFoes....at first we thought it was about Romans and Greeks that they'll keep aside their animosity and together close the doors of death. But in the House of Hades, we met a really really good Giant and Titan. And they helped closing the doors of death. So, I'm still confused over the fact that the fourth line of the prophecy has already been fulfilled..For obvious reasons you can never ever trust prophecies ( especially prophecies on Rick Rioridan books :D) till the story ends (remember the Last Olympian?!).But anyways these are my guesses. So lets just sit here waiting for the prophecy to happen..2.Just had a thought. I think When we're gonna reach the most crucial part, its gonna be really really intense. Something that make the seven demigods think 'We're SOO gonna be killed RIGHT NOW!'Like Percy and Jason be likeAnd The Seven are LikeSee? Getting the image? OH Come On! THIS IS SO GONNA HAPPEN!3.Leo and Calypso reunion- YOU BETTER BRING IT ON RICK!!!! We really, really need a Happy Ending, atleast for those two!I have my fingers totally crossed for this!4.Nico's happy ending(50% chance) - *sniffle* Don't you just *sniff* miss the Happy Little Nico?Ok, i know he Wont be the same happy-kid-nico like EVER, but if he has to face more problems which will make him bitter all the time I'm gonna personally write a letter to the Fates up there with written on it 'STOP RUINING HIS LIFE!!!!'Now i know, most of you think Nico will be happy once he gets a boyfriend yada yada yada....and i'm sitting here thinkingSeriously?. Tell me honestly, do you need to be in a relationship to be happy?? No! If Nico is upset and angry, having a relationship ISN'T the ONLY solution! I just...wanna see him happy, like he mustfeelhappy and contended. Please Jason, help the kid! Or maybe coach...uh ok not the coach.5. Mellie &amp; Baby- DEFINITELY GONNA SEE THEM! IM 100% sure about it. See? Here's my written guarantee here!6. Parents &amp; Demigods Reunion- Obviously, since it is hinted that Gods and Demigods would be fighting together, the Godly Parents would be having this 'meeting' with their children. Im SOOO excited for this.Also, to Rick- If you're somehow reading this(by any luck of mine)- I'll offer you burnt foods for offering, sacrifice Teddy Bears...or anything you want, but PLEASE just make this reunion of Sally Jackson with Percy, Frederick Chase with Annabeth, and other mortal-parents meeting their Children. ESPECIALLY Sally Jackson &amp; Percy!Just thinking about this reunion is seriously making me lurch and cry from inside. We really really need to see this :*(7. Bad Bad Monsters!!!!Well duh! Epic finale needs epic Monsters who wont just gloat but fight pretty well too, like almost kill demigods to shreds! Special Emphasis on 'Almost' :D. Which brings me to next prediction..8. DeathWhy Why Why Is it So obvious??? I just DON'T want ANYONE to die Exceot Octavian (that son of a gorgon!). But i think someone important is definitely gonna die, most likely one of the seven in the prophecy. And you know who i think is gonna die? Hazel or Frank or Jason, EVEN though they're my favorite characters! No, not only them, All of the seven are my favorite!! But SOMEONE's DEFINITELY GONNA DIE!!! *cries in a corner*Damn the feels! And just so you know i don't know how to use all the 'gifs' reference but thanks for reading that mess :D.