You know how people say so and so is a "force of nature" and peopleusuallytake notice but then you see/read/meet said "force of nature" and really they're just a loud talker who's kinda bossy and then you feel let down?Well, I'm here to tell you Tiny Cooper is a bonafide force of nature!Tiny Cooper, who in fact, is not tiny. At all. The dude is gigantor. He is a loud talker but he's also magnetic in that tractor beam sort of way that attracts everyone around him to orbit his Tiny Cooper planet.Tiny Cooper is such a contradiction in terms that it's comical.He's as out and proud gay as a Pride parade complete with drag queens and a marching bandIN HIGH SCHOOL!He's on the football team as an offensive lineman that has a legit chance of being recruited by NCAA teams.AND He has written, directed, is going to star in, produced, cast and did the costume design for a musical of his life story titled... brace yourselves...Tiny Dancer: The Tiny Cooper story! He ends up renaming it but it'llalwaysbe Tiny Dancer to me.And the thing is brilliant! All the different cliques of kids sign up to be in it, becauseTINY COOPER!He gets the school to fund it. The community shows up for it.Tiny Cooper is a glitterbomb divided by a rainbow.Tiny Cooper is a fucking unicorn, y'all.I haven't laughed this hard in quite some time. I listened to ABs mostly in the car on my commute and at two separate points I was laughing so hard I literally saw other drivers looking at me wondering if I was having some sort of attack so they could save themselves. I had tears on my face. My sides hurt.Before I mislead anyone this book isn'tjustabout Tiny Cooper. It's really more of an ensemble cast coming of age young adult novel with queer representation rather than a romance. Though there are romantic elements.The Will Graysons orbit Tiny Cooper. One is his best friend since grade school, the other is his 18th boyfriend.Tiny Cooper falls in love.A lot.Best friend WG I really liked. He is kind of sensitive and he needs to learn touse his wordsbut he's a worthy BFF for Tiny Cooper. He always has been and he always will be. They have some growing pains during this tale that ended up being very touching. He's also hilarious in his own rite.18th boyfriend WG... he took some getting used to. He did grow on me but he's a misanthrope. His negativity, while humorous at times in that gallows humor sort of way, gives the narrative a weightiness that I think is a reality for many teens.All of them collide into each other and affect one another, something I found realistic in that it's part of the 'coming of age' experience.We try. We fail. We try again. Sometimes we succeed and it's great. Other times we fail and it's awful. But we have our friends and loved ones to tell us it'll be ok. Sometimes we learn profound truths. Other times simple ones. But they all matter. They all have meaning.But really it's about Tiny Cooper."And now he's in me, always with me, tiny dancer in my handhold me closer TINY DANCERRRRR..."SING IT WITH ME, PEOPLE!!!Recommend to those who want a laugh with a side of teen angst.