This book is terrific ---one that adults could spend time together discussing.....(high or low rating, there are topics worthy of discussion in this book)Sixteen year olds may enjoy this book - but I think the deeper insights might be more appreciated when older. There are already 15, 300 reviews ....I read two: ( 2 years ago), by Larry Hoffer, and Glenn Sumi. Larry's review was contagious and Glenn's thought provoking.With the recent floods in San Jose-an ongoing reminder for Paul and I - as we are hosting flood victims this month - and the two bomb threats at our Local Jewish Community center this week--I was hoping for a fun escape. ( so I grabbed this off my shelf)....However....THIS BOOK WAS FUNNY ....THE VERY FIRST SENTENCE WAS HILARIOUS....but I forgot -- TEENAGERS HAVE ISSUES: serious issues!!Underneath the laughter and funny dialogue, these kids were dealing with depression, love, loss, gay and straight relationships WITH PROBLEMS , friendships WITH PROBLEMS , struggles within their family, school, and struggles with their own painful awareness. ---...........so basically -- The only way I really got my escape, was escaping into the teenage world of problems that were irresistibly funny... that we all know are a little bit sad.....and .... a little bit funny!! AS LIFE IS!!! FUNNY&amp;SAD!At times some of these characters were annoying- rude - and unlikable -Other times we step back and our hearts open - we feel the tenderness - we feel the luv.The real star - standout - of this story is not the title characters -- but a character named: Tiny Cooper."Tiny Cooper is not the worlds gayest person, and he is not the worlds largest person, but I believe he may be the world's largest person who is really, really gay, and also the worlds gayest person who is really, really large."......It's a different experience reading a book written by two authors where there're each creator of a character. John Green and David Levithan's writing style are 'very' different resulting in both characters of Will Grayson being 'completely' different.....but it's a beautiful blend ......ending with a bigger-than-life musical!These kids lives are complicated. The relationships are each entangled. Add social media- texting- smart phone -emails... and a musical stage production.There is a word taught in this book I thought was cool: "weltschmerz".... which means:"It's that depression you feel when the world as it is does not line up with the world as you think it should be".And as my mother would say, "Que Sera Sera"..... 'what shall be will be"