At some point, maybe two years ago, I decided I no longer wanted to read YA. I thought I'm too old for this shit, it's boring, there's no sex, bleh, whatever. And even while some people ranted and raved about this one (ahem, Weasel) I still thought nope! Not for me.Then, I find myself in Barnes and Noble picking up a couple new books. I go to check out at the register, and I see Will Grayson, Will Grayson sitting behind the counter, catching my eye with its pretty, shiny cover and looking sadly abandoned. I ask the woman if its on hold for someone, and she tells me no, that its mine if I want it.I realize now this was kismet.This story felt a little bit like having a high school do-over for me (and yes, I realize that makes me sound sad and old). Basically, it's a story of Will meets Will. They're in different situations, but both in the process of learning about themselves, life, and love, which is something everyone can relate to. It's very much a YA story, with their predictable 'woe is me' teenage problems. However, I found that I could relate to these two characters, and they took me back to a Taylor I had almost forgotten.The greatest part of this story though, was the humor intertwined with almost every scene. I think I dog-eared about twenty pages so I could go back and steal their one liners for later use. They are just as cynical as I am, and so of course, I found them both hilarious. And yes, I'll provide a sample:(view spoiler)["i have some friend request from some stranger on facebook and i delete it without looking at the profile because that doesn't seem natural. 'cause friendship should not be as easy as that. it's like people believe all you need to do is like the same bands in order to be soulmates. or books.omg... U like the outsiders 2... it's like we're the same person!no were not. it's like we have the same english teacher. there's a difference."(Oh, the irony)(hide spoiler)]The ending even has a nice little 'GLEE' moment. I haven't actually seen that show, but I imagine its a bit like this. All friendship, and love, life lessons all around. There's really not anyone Iwouldn'trecommend this to. Any person with a sense of humor and their soul still intact will probably like it. ;)p.s. special thanks to M for the buddy read! *hugs* &lt;3, loll