Fwhooooooeeeeee..... that last chapter! Incredible!And, btw, the whole time I've been reading this, Sam's office I've been picturing as that depicted in aStar Trek: TNGepisode where Captain Picard plays a holodeck program to relax - a detective noir program that he absolutely loves! It had to have been this, pretty sure it was this, I remember an early scene was someone changing out the name on the outer door :D. I'd never seen nor readThe Maltese Falcon, so I wasn't familiar with the detective story he was playing out.It's fantastic. This one, the book, I mean. I bet thatTNGepisode was, too. Can't remember enough of it now. Enjoyed it at the time :DGlad I have the audiobook. Looking forward to the listen! I'll borrow the movies from the library at a later date, for sure.------Borrowed from the library. Also picked up theAudioBook CD, narrated by William Dufris, to listen to after I read the book.There was also an Audio Guide CD titledAn Introduction to The Maltese Falcon by Dashiell Hammett, by Dan Stone, published by the National Endowment for the Arts, [2006], which was part of their "Big Read" series. It was pretty good :D. It's short (29 mins), but pretty interesting. I learned some things, including that the book was made into a movie three times, thatThe Maltese Falconwas the first detective novel to move the genre into the 'literature' category, the 'noir' genre (in novel and in film) was created by this book, the last film adaptation launched three careers (Humphrey Bogart, someone else, and John Huston as a director).There were some interesting comparisons to English detective novelists that had gone before (authorsArthur Conan Doyle,Agatha Christie,Dorothy L. Sayers). It was noted that characters those authors created were gentleman detectives, and/or amateur detectives, while Same Spade was completely different 'hard-bitten, hard-nosed, brutal, cynical'. And thatThe Maltese Falconwas uniquely American, Europe always looking to the past, America to the future, and so created something completely new.Also a conversation about how Dashiel Hammett is often compared toRaymond ChandlerandRoss Macdonald, but again, Hammett's hero was different; Chandler's was likened to a knight 'into these mean streets a man must go who is not himself mean' (paraphrase), Macdonald's to a social worker 'always trying to figure out how to help someone'; Hammet's is a guy who 'does his job, follows his own rules of conduct'.The Audio Guide is available to listen to for free on their website:https://www.arts.gov/national-initiat...