This was my first Ray Bradbury book. Do you know - that with 1, 117, 082 ratings, and28, 668 reviews-I didn't have a clue what to expect from this book? I may have been the only person living under a rock - down deep beneath the earth -who knew nothing about this story! My Goodness ......."I CANT IMAGINE A WORLD WITHOUT BOOKS!!!!!"I have in my hands a copy of the 60th Anniversary Edition. Neil Gaiman wrote the Introduction.... and really excellent I might add! Just beautiful introduction about Fahrenheit 451 being speculative fiction....."if this goes on......." story. Ray Bradbury was writing about his present, which is our past. He was warning us about things; some of those things are obvious, and some of them, half a century later, are harder to see......First: Many readers say 'that readers', should read this book: I agree!.....Fireman no longer put out fires-- but instead burn houses that have books inside......The prose is beautiful- powerful - a tribute to the value of books......Ray Bradbury created a world where watching TV is what is consider socializing......TV is a baby sitter for busy parents. Sounds like present day to me! This is still a concern!!!.....One night -one fireman - Guy Montag - meets a young almost 17 year old girl, Clarisse McClellan, who asks Montag, "Do you ever read any of the books you burn?"He laughed. "That's against the law!" But soon, Montag begins to question theforbidden and begins to steal books. ..... As the story unfolds, Montag bumps up against challenges - scary situations - sad and dangerous situations---This is an INSANE WORLD --- played out to extremes --- but frightening that it resembles much of our world today. -- and that is even 'more' frightening!Towards the end of the copy of this 60th Anniversary edition is "The Story of Fahrenheit 451". I found it fascinating. The story about renting typewriters at UCLA library - paying a dime for every half hour to write this story -- had me laughing. ( sorry for laughing at Bradbury's suffering when the typewriter would jam.....but I think his story will be helpful to me on those days when I have computer breakdowns-- in the COMFORT of my own home!!!!Fabulous- - great excerpts on every page - A STAND FOR INTOLERANCE!!!