It was a pleasure to burn.Damn you, Ray Bradbury! Damn you!!! You wrote something that manged to scare me. Old cynical me who got desensitized by watching news with almost daily school shootings, bombs blowing in the Middle East non-stop, and ISIS doing its best to make sure everybody hates them with a passion. What is so scary about Fahrenheit 451? Lots of thing described in this dystopia hits too close to home.Everybody heard this expression people say trying to appear cool "1984 was a warning, not a manual". Fear not, we are not there yet. Other people are afraid we are approaching dystopian world of The Handmaid's Tale. We are not there yet either. Fahrenheit 451?We happily live in there.A plot description follows. In the future ignorance is good and any sign of knowledge or even thinking is bad. All the books are burned by firemen (their job description sure changed).One such fireman Guy Montag met a girl who made him to do unthinkable: she made him use his head. As a result his seemingly boring and pointless but stable life was utterly destroyed.Thanks to numerous parallels of the book with modern life I have to ask myself in Bradbury was a real prophet. I mean the guy who could see the future. The monologue of Captain Beatty about the history of firefighters was a real eye-opener. Before quoting a book I would like to mention that in the time it was written the word "minorities" was used not only for race or sexual preferences - like these days - but for any group of people."Now let's take up the minorities in our civilization, shall we? Bigger the population, the more minorities. Don't step on the toes of the dog-lovers, the cat-lovers, doctors, lawyers, merchants, chiefs, Mormons, Baptists, Unitarians, second-generation Chinese, Swedes, Italians, Germans, Texans, Brooklynites, Irishmen, people from Oregon or Mexico. The people in this book, this play, this TV serial are not meant to represent any actual painters, cartographers, mechanics anywhere. The bigger your market, Montag, the less you handle controversy, remember that! All the minor minor minorities with their navels to be kept clean."Yet another group of people being offended by something insignificant? Look around and you will see it happening daily. Remember we cheered at the demise of newspapers proclaiming internet to be much faster way of getting news? Captain Beatty covered this in his speech too. Newspapers are now virtually dead with an unintended causality: quality journalism. Nobody even pretends to produce unbiased news today.Reading about Guy Montag's pitiful attempts at having a meaningful conversation with his wife constantly reminded me of trying to talk to a smartphone addict (in other word, a normal person of the present). Let me illustrate the point:In conclusion in case you have not realized this, say hi to the happy world of Fahrenheit 451: it caught up with us. And we cheerfully accepted it, just like our counterparts from the book. I rated the book with 5 stars, but this time it does not reflect my enjoyment of reading, but its impact.