AMAZEBALLS!!!!!!!!!Seriously, I want to beat myself to a bloody pulp, poke my eyes out, jump out a window...whatever. I can't believe I waited so long to read these. What the hell???Colleen Hoover, where you been all my life???Seriously people.....seriously. I am just speechless. I LOVED THIS BOOK SOOOOO MUCH! Now I know a lot of people loved Slammed more and honestly, I think I loved this one more. I'm in the minority and it's okay. I'm just different so it's all good. But really, being in Will's head was never better!!! I'm a huge fan of reading from a guy's POV, whether it's dual pov or just the guy's pov. I love it more than the female.In this book, we get more of Lake, Will and the awesome gang that we met in Slammed, but we get to meet a few other characters too. A couple I wanted to deck in the face for being fuck faces and then a couple I just wanted to hug the whole time because they were too awesome!In Slammed, both Will and Lake faced several obstacles in their lives that brought them together. In this book, they faced obstacles that tested their love for one another. There was once again heartbreak, laughter, humor, love, passion, swoon swoon swoon, frustration, more swooning, slamming, more swooning, some slamming some more, more love and omg's and holy hell and "bitch get the fuck out of there" and much, much more. I just fell in love with these characters all over again. I love Kel, Caulder, Kiersten, Sherry, Eddie and Gavin....they really made the story so amazing. I loved the tight knit family they all became and they were always there for each other. I really think Lake and Will are very lucky to have all these people in their lives. Especially to help keep things sane. They've gone through so much shit and luckily they stuck together. But once shit hit the fan....and an ex walked back into Will's life, things are not as they seemed. I was cursing the whole time....I hate that bitch! And Reese is a jack ass too!One thing I loved was experiencing everything through Will's eyes. I love how he describes Lake and how he is so in love with her. I loved seeing her the way he sees her. We already know how she feels about Will so changing it up and writing from his POV was absolutely necessary because we got to see his perspective from the beginning. He talks about when they first met, and how he felt seeing her in the driveway acting all casual about being in proximity to this sexy guy and she was all like "whatever there's a guy here, I'm not looking..I don't care" and it was awwwwwww to see how that hurt him because he couldn't take his eyes off of her. I got so much emotion throughout the story from him and I felt so bad and cried for him in so many moments. And of course, of course.....good gracious he had me swooning and sobbing so much. And his Slams were never less than perfect and I just fell in love with him so much more. Ahhhhh, okay...I need to take a breather.My Will Cooper:Will...you are the epitome of perfect men. Good god!!!!!! Oh wait, Holder...you are too! You both are tied...so quit being so jealous. Shit, there's too many to keep up with!Anyway, this was definitely a perfect sequel to the most amazing, awe-inspiring story I've had the pleasure to experience! Go read it if you've read Slammed. It's a MUST!Colleen...you've done it again! I can't wait for more with these characters! I need the next book NOW!!!!!! NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW!