Ok, where do I start? Hmm, I NEED ANOTHER COLLEEN HOOVER BOOK NOW! There, that seems like an appropriate way to describe my feelings. After finishing Point of Retreat, I immediately came online to goodreads.com to check if there were any other books written by Colleen Hoover which I could read. Turns out, her next book is only coming out in 2013. What. The. Hell? I can't wait that long! I didn't want to believe it.Me after realising I could not read any other Colleen Hoover books very soon.Anyway, what I am really surprised about is just how much I'm in love with just her FiRST two books. Her writing style is amazing and I can't get enough of it. This is probably the first romance novel written from a male's POV which I actually love. I loved seeing things from Will's POV this time. I felt it was more appropriate being in his head this time because the things that occur in the book can probably only be fully understood if you know how he feels and what he thinks. In this book, we get to learn a little more about Will and how he feels about Lake. I think that what Collen Hoover did was great as readers will actually be able to love Will more when we get to actually "feel" his emotions. I know I fell in love with him a little more in Point of Retreat.I loved almost all new characters introduced in this book. Note: I said ALMOST. Those of you who have already read it will know where I'm coming from. One of them in particular I really liked-Kiersten. She was very witty and somehow, she didn't talk like an eleven-year-old. I liked that Colleen Hoover did not just focus on the romance and just the two of them like most romance novels. I enjoyed reading about the others' lives and what they were going through. She made the novel seem so realistic because all the characters seemed just like normal human beings. Well, as normal as two people can be under their circumstances anyway.Now, unlike Slammed, there were no quotes at the beginning of each chapter. There was still great advice which is pretty helpful though. Anyway, in place for these quotes are entries from Will's journal. I have to say, I enjoyed the entries just as much as the quotes. Like the quotes in Slammed, these entries also give us readers a hint as to what the new chapter has in store for us. Will's journal entries are usually very beautifully phrased and I loved reading them.Those of you who have not read this series probably should get it like, right now. It's emotional and it is romantic and it is definitely funny at times. Point of Retreat is definitely a good book for people who love romance novels which are not too sad but are so touching that it will bring you to tears. Of course, however, i am not saying that there are no sad moments in this novel which will make you cry, I'm just saying that those of us readers who have are very sensitive can still read this book without being emotionally scarred. But, of course, you will fall in love with almost all of the characters because they are just so...loveable. They all have their own unique personalities and the way they act and talk are so different that they seem very real. I don't say that they are absolutely flawless, but I think that it is those imperfections which make me love them more cuz it makes them human.Alright then, it is now time for all of you who have not read this book to stop reading because spoilers are coming up. If you don't mind them, feel free to continue reading what I have to say. The only thought I can leave you with right now is that this book is written beautifully and that all the characters are very easy to relate to and I'm sure that almost all of you will love it just as I do.(view spoiler)[Ok, I have to say I hate Vaughn. And I kind of hate Reece too. Not as much as Vaughn though. I wish that Will was more harsh with her. I mean, SHE left him. Moreover, she did so in his time of need. I get that she didn't think she could handle helping Will with his brother and everything but she owed it to him to have at least tried. But, she left him without even attempting to help. And, when she spots him in class, she has the audacity to smile and sit beside him! Then, she asks him to give her another chance?! How could Vaughn say that Will owes it to Lake to give HER another chance?! Like, WTF?!To VaughnI wish Will had just bitch-slapped her right there and then. That was probably my only "hate" in the book.Moving on, I loved the stars. Loved them. I loved the advice in them and the humour in some of the others. Reading them made me actually miss Julia. Made me wish she was still alive. What I couldn't get my head around was how the stars they picked were coincidentally so helpful to what they were going through. Nonetheless, I still took joy in them.Kiersten. Kiersten, Kiersten Kiersten.. We would all be so lucky to have a friend like her. I loved her wit and how she used that to help Will and Lake get back together. I liked that the children were not left out of the story and that they actually played a part in it. How they actually helped the two-Will and Lake- and at the same time had their own story going on in the book. Kiersten is one of my favourite characters in this book. She is quite fun and clever for her age. I live the way she talked and how she is just so frank with people and give them what they deserve and how at the same time she was vulnerable to the bullies. I would actually like to read a book about her and Kel when they are older and their romance story.I think I used "loved" and "liked" so many damn times in this review. I just can't help it. This book is really good. Those of you who have already read it and disliked it, please don't leave hate comments if you didn't love it as much as I did. I am just giving my views on the book. After all, everyone is entitled to their own opinion. So, don't judge!(hide spoiler)]