The Iron Queencontinues off the last time we saw Meghan and Ash. Exiled from Nevernever and into the mortal world. Everyday normal possibilities are discussed and maybe, just maybe Meg and Ash can live in peace. Yeah, if it was only that easy.The False King is still after Meghan and will do everything in his power to have her, for she possesses the key that will give him total power over the Iron realm.Join Meghan, daughter of the Summer king. Ash, her beloved and Winter prince. Puck, comical genius and best friend and last, but surly not least, a familiar favor-collecting cat named Grimalkin, on yet another epic journey in hopes to stop the False king, bring balance to the Winter and Summer courts, and some where down the line find there happily ever after.That is, if they can survive it....Wow, I don't even know where to start. It's incredibly difficult to write a review with out wanting toscreamexactly wants on your mind with out giving everything away. If this was a couple of months later then this would be written in an entirely different tone, but for now, this will have to do.I'm always floored every time I go back to Julie Kagawa's world. It's so vivid and alive. Rich with madness, magic and mayhem that you can picture ever single creature, monster and character it's almost like watching a movie in your mind. Pure greatness.This book was my favorite by far, it's non-stop wonders, on the edge of your seat suspense and swoon-worthy moments that turned my insides into goo.What can I possibly say about these characters that I haven't said already? I adore them? I love them? It just doesn't sound enough.There is a different side to Ash that we get to see. In the previous books we see our Winter prince serious, reserved, obeys his queen and denies his heart, but in this book Ash shows his true colors, and it's beautiful.Ruined-me-melts me-owns me, Beautiful.Seriously, it's almost criminal how delicious one character can be.The one thing that I simply adored about Puck is his great humor, but he felt rather wounded in this one and I wasn't use to it, the humor is still there mind you, but I guess it just feels...bitter. Not that I blame him though, still, if I had to pick one best friend in the literary world, then it would be Puck.It was wonderful to see how much Meghan has grown. She's shown great strenght and determination to see things the way they should be. Even if sacrifices has to be made.I enjoyed meeting a lot of new characters, always so animated and entertaining.I don't want to say to much about the ending, and how much I cried. Or the romance, and how much I cried. Happy tears or sad? I can't tell you, but I will say that while this isn't exactly the ending that I wanted to happen, I'm still content with the way things played out. It's the way things should be and I'm pleased that Julie remained faithful to her characters and the world they live in.But,dammmewhat an ending!?!?!Basically, I just loved the hell out of this book and this entire series. It's always so much fun getting lost in this universe and swooning over these characters and I'm thrilled that the adventure doesn't stop here but continues on with Ash, in THE IRON KNIGHT!!If your ever going to pick up a Fey series, even if you don't care for this particular paranormal lore, thenthisis the series your going to want to read. It's thee best!Special thanks to Harlequin Teen for giving me the opportunity to read this outstanding masterpiece!IRON KNIGHT, I NEED YOU!!