This.was.epic!!! Simply epic. Julia Kagawa wrote an incredible third book in the Iron Fey series. I laughed and I cried - a lot! And I devoured every second of this book.Read Review at Bewitched Bookworms..Iron Queen starts with Ash and Meghan being cast out of Nevernever and talking about what to do next. What live to life - a Fey and a Half Breed, what future could they have in the human world?When they reach Meghan's home, she's scared since it's been a year she was home. We don't have to wait long for Meghan being attacked - again from Iren Fey. This is when she realized that her journey has not ended yet and that she has to face the Iron Fey once more. Yet, she has no clue how big the threat became and lives and a whole world depends on Meghan's courage and decisions.Gosh how I loved this girl! Meghan in this book is not the Meghan we got to know in the Iron King. She's grown up, the happenings in with the Iron Fey and the Iron King changed her, made her even braver. She begins to realize what she can do, what powers lay inside her and that she has to use them. I adored her bravery and also her loyalty to people that were nothing to her only a year ago, yet Meghan would do anything to defend them. She stands up and faces her destiny.Ash *swoon* .. he's the wonderful Ice Prince Meghan fall in love with and he is all that she could ever hope for. FInally separated from the cold Unseelie Court Ash begins to lighten up. His love for Meghan is endless and he would do anything to protect her, to make her happy - he would even give his life for her. Always by her site he also encourages her to fight, to go out of her comfort zone to be the girl she was ever meant to be. But he's also insecure and scared and that makes him even more adorable! His possessiveness makes him the guy every girl dreams about. Truly, I was Team Ash right from the beginning - now I'm even more!Puck and Grim are the ones that makes you laugh when everything seems darker and darker, they are the light source in every Iron Book so far. Grim is his usual annoying, sarcastic self that tries to hide how much he cares for Megh and Puck (although heartbroken form Megh's choice) will make you laugh and cry at the same time.While reading this book, I felt like a movie is running behind my eyes. Julie managed to describe the places Meghan, the boys and Grim have to visit so that I was always stunned in amazement thinking how that would look on a big screen. This.Would.Be.Incredible!I was sobbing so hard during the last 10% of the book. Get your Kleenex ready when getting to this part, I promise your eyes will be red after you finished this book. The end will leave you speechless, I promise you this too! You will be torn between how you wish this book will end and how you know this book has to end. Let me just say this: If I wouldn't know that there will be "The Iron Knight" coming out next year, I would be desperate!Bottom Line:The Iron Queen was the epic, enthralling and heart breaking third book in The Iron Fey saga. You will cry from heartbreak and you will fall in love with those amazing characters all over again. If you haven't started the first book yet, get it - you won't be disappointed and love this amazing and wonderful world Julie Kagawa created.