This is another famous book that most people only seem to know through the movie version. While the movie was quite good-the book is truly a wonder. First a little bit of real history-during 1755, in the middle of the French-Indian Wars, Sir William Johnson decided to build a Fort in the New York province. The Fort (it's still there and worth visiting) was built to control the important inland waterway from New York City to Montreal, and occupied a key forward location on the frontier between New York and New France. If you happen to see the Fort you will notice that Fort William Henry is designed in an irregular square fortification with bastions on the corners, in a design that was intended to repel Indian attacks, but not necessarily withstand attack from an enemy armed with artillery (such as the French). The fort was surrounded on three sides by a dry moat, with the fourth side sloping down to the lake. The only access to the fort was by a bridge across the moat. It housed about 400-500 soldiers. In 1757 Col. George Monro with the 35th Foot (Regular) and the 60th (Royal American) Foot occupied the Fort. In August of 1757 French forces totaling some 8,000 soldiers, consisting of 3,000 regulars, 3,000 militia and nearly 2,000 Native Americans from various tribes laid siege to the Fort. Due to the inability (or some have deemed it "cowardice") of General Webb in not sending reinforcements, Col Monro had no other recourse than to surrender. Allowed the full honors of war (which means the British can keep their arms and unit colors; the weapons can not be loaded; ammunition must be left behind; they couldn't engage in hostilities with French forces for 18 months and an exchange of prisoners ) the British marched out of the Fort and were promptly massacred by the Indian forces of the French. This is something of a black mark for the French commander- Montcalm, who had responsibility for their safety according to the Laws of War. Sadly, in reality, "Laws" of war tend to be a ridiculous construct of civilians and tend to come into existence post-incident. But I digress- this book has this event and historical situation as its backdrop.This is the story of the famous Anglo scout Hawkeye and his Mohican companions Chingachook and Uncas (father and son). As Col Monro's daughters run into Magua a Huron scout in the service of France. What follows is a heroic tale of Hawkeye and his companions racing to protect the women and their two British companions. I will not spoil the plot-it is worth reading. What makes this book shine isn't the plot but rather the background- America when it was a new nation and covered in unexplored, by the British, wilderness. This world does not exist any more save in these pages of Cooper's magnificent novel. Take a trip to an America of the past and revel in the descriptions of familiar locales that are nothing like what they were in the past. It is a truly wonderful book that tells an exciting story, yet the setting -the vast American wilderness and the Native Americans who people it are what make this a classic. Highly recommended to any one that appreciates good literature.