5 Stars! RAWRRRRRR!I am inLOVEwith Braden Carmichael, my bags are packed and I'm moving to Dublin Street!Aside from some repetitiveness with Jocelyn's dialogue, it was almost the perfect book! There was tragedy, drama, lust, passion, love, humor, fun, fantastic dialogue and it wasSSSSSSSSSIZZLING!I'm not going to get into the story too much, but this book had two of the best and most realistic scenes I've ever read. One had me laughing so hard, I had tears running down my face. We always fear the embarrassing happening when we get involved in a new relationship...well it happens here...I'm chuckling as I'm writing this, no...actually I'm LMAO just thinking about it! The moment and what occurs afterwards is very funny, or at least it was to me. Then the author brings us right into a heartbreaking moment, one second your laughing, then your heart is pounding...the author knows how to toy with the readers emotions. What ensues after that with Braden and Jocelyn...had me gritting my teeth and wringing my hands...again very real and well-written.For a character who initially came off as an egotistical ass, Braden was amazing, caring and loving...what a man. What I enjoyed about him most was his playful side, he got angry, but he also knew how to get even and push Jocelyn's buttons. He was just what she needed to push her full circle and deal with her family's death and other tragic moments in her life. Jocelyn was on a path to self-destruction, then built a wall around herself to protect her from bonding and caring about anyone. Braden didn't just knock that wall down, he annihilated it!There was also a lovely secondary romance with Braden's sister, Ellie, who was also Jocelyn's roommate. I'm hoping the author considers making this a series. There were so many interesting characters that I would love to see featured in a book of their own. Whatever happened to Nicholas? I felt bad for him, even though we barely got to know him. Please Samantha Young, give him somebody to love!Oh and there is a lovely HEA!! *grinning like mad*