This book has ruined me for others...I haven't been able to read anything since.Until then...Braden...Well, what can I say that hasn't already been said? There's over1,500!!reviews for this book, the author has just signed a 7-figure, 2 paperback book deal with a major publisher, sold 150,000 downloads of this self-published book in one month,andI'll bet movie rights might be next. So I doubt my little review will make much difference in its success...but I'll add my 2-cents anyway.I loved this book!In fact, I fear it's ruined me for all others (temporarily, of course) since I haven't picked up another book in over a week. That's how caught up I am (still) in this one!The characters, the story, the setting, the plot, and OMG theheatin this one...everything worked for me. I was totally absorbed in it and did...not...want..it...to...end! The story is told in 1st person (not my favorite, but it worked) from the heroine's (Joss/Jocelyn Butler) POV (sure wished we could hear from the hero, though). Joss is snarky, rude at times, stubborn, and self-contained, with a tough outer shell trying desperately to hide a soft and sweet inside, and very, very vulnerable. It takes a while to appreciate her in this book, but keep an open mind because she's young (22) and has been througha lot. She had a major upheaval in her life at age 14, and she hasn't really dealt with it for 8 years. She's 22 now, fresh out of college in Edinburgh, Scotland (she's half American, half Scottish) working in a bar part time while she's trying to write a novel. The story starts with her moving into a beautifully renovated apartment (on Dublin Street) that she will be sharing with a friendly young blonde (Ellie Carmichael) who is working on her PhD. Ellie has a half-brother, Braden (a very successful, sexy real estate developer), who is very devoted to her (I loved their brother-sister relationship). Braden and Joss had shared a cab (where all kinds of sparks flew) once and when Joss finds out that the man she dubbed "the Suit" in her mind isher flatmate's brother!,andshe will be seeing a lot of him in the future, well that just opens up a lot of problems for Joss. Joss is determined to keep herself closed off from people. She wants to be acquaintances rather than "friends", doesn't want to shareanythingabout herself or her painful past, and lord knows she's not looking for a relationship. But Ellie and Braden have other ideas..."Oh Joss, what am I going to do with you..."I won't say any more about the plot, except to say there's something for everyone. I laughed, I cried, I sighed, I swooned... I loved the whole atmosphere surrounding the book, and all the little details the author provided. She doesn't skimp on describing anything--whether it's Ellie's and Joss's apartment or the clothes they are wearing or the TV shows they are watching or the places they visit or their circle of friends--everything is told in such a way that you can easily visualize it. And the physical descriptions of the characters? Here's an example:For Braden:The Suit wasn't classically handsome, but there was a twinkle in his eye and curl to the corner of his sensual mouth that, together with the rest of the package, oozed sex appeal. Perhaps in his late twenties or early thirties, I could tell from the lines of the extremely well-tailored, expensive silver-grey suit that he wore, that the Suit worked out. He sat with the ease of a fit guy, his stomach iron flat under the waistcoat and white shirt. His pale blue eyes seemed bemused beneath their long lashes, and for the life of me I couldn't get over the fact that he had dark hair.I preferred blondes. Always had.Yet none of them had ever made my lower belly squeeze with lust at first sight of them. A strong masculine face stared into mine--sharp jaw-line, a cleft chin, wide cheekbones, and a roman nose. Dark stubble shadowed his cheeks, and his hair was kind of messy. Altogether, his rugged unkemptness seemed at odds with the stylish designer suit.Braden...Joss...Braden with his sister Ellie...Speaking of Braden...OMG what a romance hero! Quite honestly he makes the whole book. He's everything you want in a romance hero--sexy, successful, funny, devoted to his family, a little overprotective with those he loves, a little cocky (he does have a healthy ego), intense, generous, understanding, bold...and one sexy, persistent dirty-talkin' ("I don't know what I like better..." he mused, stroking his chin in teasing contemplation. "...the naked you, or you in that tank top. D's right?") fantastic lover (oh yowza, their first time!) He was just perfect for Jocelyn (as he insisted on calling her); I felt that he really understood her and was patient enough with her while she worked out all the stuff she was going through. Yes, at times I got frustrated with her and wondered why Braden didn't just give up on her (while hoping that he didn't!) but he hung in there, knowing when to push her and when to ease up, even though at times she made it very tough on him. But their HEA was soooo worth it...getting there was a real struggle sometimes but filled with many, many hot (and increasingly intimate) times which made it so much sweeter.Braden and Joss kiss...Now, anyone on the fence, let me try to convince you. If you like a fully developed story, with plenty of hot, sexy, steamy scenes that are crucial to the plot (and not just added in to titillate) then this is for you. If you like a complicated, vulnerable heroine who finally learns that it's okay to open up and let people inside, who's ready to put the past behind her and face the promising future that she could have, then this one's for you. If you like a good cry in your reads (no spoilers but youwilltear up a time or two), then this is for you. If you like a well-thought out romance, where everything is not always perfect, then this is for you. And finally, if you like a to-die-for-hero, one that you wish could beyours, then by all means this is your book. I can honestly say that Braden Carmichael is one of my all-time-favorite romance heroes, and that this book,On Dublin Street, is one of the best books I've read in 2012. Highly recommended 5+ stars!