Lee Harvey Oswald, John Wilkes Booth, James Earl Ray, Nathuram Godse (God bless you Google for that last one !) all assassinated great leaders in their prime - JFK, Lincoln, Martin Luther King, Gandhi - leaders who could have gone on to even greater achievements had they lived, and whose premature deaths still pose some of the great " what if's" of history. Archduke Franz Ferdinand, heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, was no such comparable leader when he and his wife Sophie were murdered by Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo on 28th June 1914, yet his assassination was the trigger point for perhaps the greatest calamity in World history. Gavrilo Princip, his assassin, is, as author Tim Butcher puts it, probably History's most influential assassin.In this timely groundbreaking new study on Princip, his life and his times, Tim uses the "follow in the footsteps " formula so deftly employed in his previous 2 books set in Africa, Blood River and Chasing the Devil, to understand the motivations and actions of Princip. This is part travel writing, part history lesson, part reflection on more recent events in the Balkans and the present state of affairs. But Tim adds another ingredient which is what makes his writing so special - his journalistic instinct for succinct observation and description, and his ability to absorb the reader with engaging anecdotes and startling facts.Tim literally follows in the footsteps of Princip as his life moves from rural Western Bosnia to his destiny in Sarajevo, as he deftly draws a picture of a character and an anti-hero more complex than history has hitherto portrayed, painting a more rounded sketch of Princip - his motivations, beliefs and hopes. He cuts through the differing propagandistic portrayals of Princip that have served the needs of various parties during the past 100 years, be they Imperialistic Austo-Hungarian, Royalist Pan-Slavic Yugoslav, Socialist or ultra-Nationalist Serb. The account is greatly solidified by Tim's uncovering of new primary historical material.Tim uses his experiences as a war reporter in Bosnia in the early 1990's to bring local knowledge to the telling of the story, and in doing so finds unique linkage between the various periods in the tumultuous history of 20th Century Bosnia and the Balkans, from the crumbling Ottoman Empire through Austro-Hungarian rule, the emergence of South Slav Nationalism, the creation of Yugoslavia post WW-1 and it's experience in WW2, and the violent fracturing and death of Yugoslavia in the 1990's as toxic ethnic-based Nationalism replaced Pan-Slav unity. Tim skillfully shows how the former events shaped the young Princip, and then how his ghost and legacy remained an unseen but nevertheless present specter throughout subsequent events through to today.The flashbacks and anecdotes on the Bosnian war of the 1990's Tim recounts as he follows Princip's trail through Bosnia, although not terribly detailed, nevertheless rank among the best writing on that period since Silber &amp; Little's " The death of Yugoslavia " in their brutal, insightful simplicity. Tim's descriptions from his journalistic experiences of the siege of Sarajevo and the genocide at Srebrenica are particularly harrowing.The climatic description of the assassination itself is startlingly crafted through the use of an astonishing photograph with an accompanying detailed account of everything that can be seen in the photo. The Archduke's car is about to make the fatal wrong turn off the Appel quay, and in the photo you can see the front wheels visibly turning to the right; the woman in the white dress outside the Mortiz Schiller cafe must be standing right next to Princip who is just out of sight; the strong sunlight creates a reflective haze against the camera lense; the minarets of old Sarajevo are visible in the background. In writing terms, this is simply breathtaking and achingly haunting, the literary equivalent of the Zapruder film. I had to read this passage several times over. In fact if one closes one's eyes one can interpose two scenes 50 years apart; Appel Quay becomes Dealy Plaza; the Schiller Cafe becomes the Dallas book depositry. I think Tim can' t resist his instinct for the goose-bump raising detail when he informs us the registration number of the Archduke's car is A 111118. Finish reading this one late at night as I did and you feel a goose has walked on your grave.Tim Butcher is fast becoming a must-read author for me and a growing bunch of like-minded friends. To pick up a Butcher book in the evening is like looking forward to a fireside chat over a glass of whiskey with a well-travelled and slightly mysterious Uncle .. The path of the story will meander and may divert onto interesting tangents, but the telling of the tale will be sharp, focused and thoroughly absorbing.An inscription on the wall of Princip's cell read " our ghosts will walk through Vienna, and roam through the Palace, frightening the Lords ". Tim has brought to life the ghost of Gavrilo Princip, and done justice to his memory. In the 100th anniversary of the shots that started the War, this is the best book of the year for me so far.