Although I am not ordinarily interested in historical books, I found that this book proved to be a key explanation for the Archduke's assassination and how its misinterpretation started off WWI. Similarly to the way 9-11, an attack carried out by Saudis, caused the United States to attack Afghanistan, so Princip's dream of a pan-Slavian nation was falsely attributed to Serbian nationalism, and it led to countries facing off against each other for reasons other than the assassination (reasons, however, conveniently attributed to the assassination) and the outbreak of WWI.This book is brilliantly written by a British journalist who himself covered the Bosnian/Serbian war in the 1990s. He unearths documents such as Princip's school grades to show the making of the assassin. Princips was one of six teenagers who aimed to take out the Archduke. He was the only one who succeeded, although one of the others threw a grenade that missed the Archduke's car and obliterated the one behind it. Princips was an idealist, a constant reader, and the farthest thing from a nationalist, even though he happened to be from Serbia. His idea was to unshackle the entire Balkan area from Austro-Hungarian rule and allow self-rule to the united countries of the Balkans, something that only happened in a corrupt way when Marshall Tito pulled the countries together under the banner of communism.The book uncovers such interesting facts as both Franz Ferdinand and Princips being excellent shots, with totals of the Archduke's hunting kills over the years; the author riding on a bus made by the same company that made the Archduke's death car; the fact that Franz Ferdinand now exists as a rock band, and when the author attended its concert, with a huge photo of Princips as a background, no one attending seemed to even know who Princips was; how Princips was first regarded as a Serbian nationalist, then years later a liberator from Austro-Hungarian rule, then years after that as a terrorist.Princip's main motivation was to stop the Balkan states from continuous impoverishment as colonies of others' empires (first Ottoman, then Austro-Hungarian). He was an excellent student when he wanted to be, but he became gradually radicalized during his years in Sarajevo from the age of 13 to 19, when he killed the Archduke. His team of assassins included Serbs, Bosnians, Muslims, and people oppressed by the empire, but history incorrectly labeled him a radical Serb. The manifestations of this incorrect labeling were among the causes of the 1990s Bosnian/Serbian War.So Princip's lofty ideals led him to be vilified throughout history and made him a false cause for WWI.The author concludes that Princips is just an everyman who represented all the oppressed peoples of the Balkans, although the historical narrative has been twisted by various powers for their own convenience.The book has some photos of Princips and one of the Dealey Plaza Moment taken seconds before Princips hit the Archduke as the car heaves into view.The entire book is absorbing and helps explain the 1990s war as well as the immediate context of the assassination in 1914. I would highly recommend it, even to people not that interested in history.