Gregson and Lestrade had watched the maneuvers of their amateur companion with considerable curiosity and some contempt. They evidently failed to appreciate the fact, which I had begun to realize, that Sherlock Holmes's smallest actions were all directed towards some definite and practical end.This is the first Sherlock Holmes story, a novel which introduces the now legendary detecting team of Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson.Watson is looking for a roommate and is introduced to Holmes with some warnings."Holmes is a little too scientific for my tastes - it approaches to cold-bloodedness. I could imagine his giving a friend a little pinch of the latest vegetable alkaloid, not out of malevolence, you understand, but simply out of a spirit of inquiry in order to have an accurate idea of the effects. To do him justice, I think he would take it himself with the same readiness. He appears to have a passion for definite and exact knowledge."But Watson and Holmes get along, and end up being one of the strongest pairings in all of literature....This isn't my first, second, or even third time reading this book. Parts of it are etched on my brain, never to be erased."I consider that a man's brain originally is like a little empty attic, and you have to stock it with such furniture as you choose. A fool takes in all the lumber of every sort that he comes across, so that the knowledge which might be useful to him gets crowded out, or at best is jumbled up with a lot of other things, so that he has a difficulty in laying his hands upon it. Now the skilful* workman is very careful indeed as to what he takes into his brain-attic. He will have nothing but the tools which may help him in doing his work, but of these he has a large assortment, and all in the most perfect order. It is a mistake to think that that little room has elastic walls and can distend to any extent. Depend upon it there comes a time when for every addition of knowledge you forget something that you knew before. It is of the highest importance, therefore, not to have useless facts elbowing out the useful ones."Now, I don't agree with Sherlock on this. But the passage stays with me, and is often discussed amongst my friends and family. This is probably the most memorable passage in the book (for me, at least)....Holmes is rather self-sufficient and self-contained, but in no way is he a cold, callous, rude or even distant man. I dislike when he's portrayed as emotionless or cruel, because even in this first story he's obviously not an anti-social creature.When he meets Watson he is a bit anxious that his violin playing will disturb him. Later, to make up for all his meandering here and there on the violin, without shape or form - he plays beautiful and famous pieces for Watson in order to please him.And he thrives on Watson's wide-eyed awe of him and his innate trust in Sherlock's abilities.My companion flushed up with pleasure at my words, and the earnest way in which I uttered them. I had already observed that he was as sensitive to flattery on the score of his art as any girl could be of her beauty.This adoration of Watson somewhat makes up for Holmes the bitterness and rancor he feels on not getting the credit he is due for solving the police's more difficult cases."What you do in this world is a matter of no consequence," returned my companion, bitterly. "The question is, what can you make people believe that you have done?"...The book is really divided up into two parts, and the first part is the more enjoyable part.In the first part, Watson and Holmes meet, slowly get acquainted and suss each other out. Then eventually Holmes's profession is revealed, and the fun starts when a man is found murdered in an empty house. The police are stumped and come to Holmes for help. And Holmes wants Watson along for the ride.The second part is more uncomfortable due to the extreme battering of Mormons and Mormon religion. Mormons are portrayed as evil rapists and slavers. If you are upset by this portrayal, this book might be very painful for you to read.Not to say that the first part is free and clear. For instance, when Watson sees the body of the murdered man, he remarks:"So sinister was the impression which that face had produced upon me that I found it difficult to feel anything but gratitude for him who had removed its owner from the world."This kind of idea - the person is ugly; Ugliness is a manifestation of evil in a person just as beauty is a manifestation of good. Judging a person - a person who was murdered, terrified and alone! - by their ugly facial features as "deserving of murder," makes me upset. However, this was a common literary trope back then and (unfortunately) still is today. Ugliness, disability, and deformities are often shown as "signs" and "proof" of a person's deviance and malevolence....This book focuses on a revenge plot, and there are some great quotes about vengeance in here."There is no satisfaction in vengeance unless the offender has time to realize who it is that strikes him, and why retribution has come upon him."And"I had always known that vengeance would be sweet, but I had never hoped for the contentment of soul which now possessed me."...Tl;dr - A classic, and for a good reason. Who wouldn't enjoy seeing the world's most famous detective solve his first case with Dr. Watson by his side? And unlike many classics, this is easy to read and fast paced. Besides a few slang terms no longer in effect, and one or two times I was reaching for my dictionary, this reading presented no problems at all. Doyle possesses a straightforward and exciting writing style - he doesn't spend hours describing the scenery or make his characters talk in an affected way. The story is gripping and will have you turning pages quickly. As Watson would say,There was no need for him to ask me to wait up for him, for I felt that sleep was impossible until I heard the result of his adventure.You will also find sleep elusive as you chase murderers alongside the fierce Sherlock and the intrepid Watson! Happy trails!*It's spelled like this in my copy.Available in Spanish as Estudio en Escarlata.