My second helping of this wonderful book. I still love it.Indeed, it is my favorite urban fantasy series involving werewolves. I enjoyedCry Wolffor the plot, the primary H/h relationship development (but it does begin with almost instant soul-mate recognition), the secondary characters, and the grim-dark spookiness.Werewolves tackle the wicked wicked witch. Bloodlust and madness is about to descend on the icy mountains of Montana. An age-old berserker rage threatens to rip the world apart, starting with the unsuspecting town of Aspen Creek.Told in 3rd person, I liked getting various perspectives as the POV transitioned from Anna to Charles to Bran to Asil, with the prologue in Walter's eyes. (Some readers might not like the head hopping, but I was fine with it.)My take on CRY WOLF:The villain is wicked, credible, and textured, the plot cohesive, suspenseful, and contained (but the beginning is abrupt if you've not read the prequel,Alpha &amp; Omega: A Companion Novella to Cry Wolf. In the prequel, set in Chicago, Anna meets Charles and moves to his home in Montana. It's good!).Of all the books I have read by Briggs, this plot is quite possibly the best. It makes complete sense. The characters add up, too (except Anna psychologically recovers from the abuse in Chicago too quickly, but that is explained away as a function of her inner wolf, so okay). A few secondary characters are quite sympathetic, namely Walter (loved him !!) and Asil (intriguing and tragic).The book might disappoint fans of nonstop fight scenes from page one. The action doesn't really get going till about 50%, but I was fine with that. I appreciated the normal pace of the first half of the book, getting to know the setting and the characters, and enjoying a mildly smexy scene or two. Once the battle begins, it's supercharged action till nearly the end.THE CHARACTERS:Main characters, Anna Latham and Charles Cornick:Black hair flowing to his waist, Charles Cornick, his powerful father's enforcer and -- well -- killer, is an alpha werewolf by nature, even though his sire (Bran Cornick, "The Marrrok") bears the true title Alpha, commanding all the werewolves in North America. (see what the term "Marrock" refers to, further down).Distanced from others by his "enforcer" position, alone and aloof for much of his 200 years, feared by all except his beloved father and older brother Samuel, Charles finally finds his mate in Anna Latham, an omega werewolf. Yup! It's sweet. Charles, the stoic son of a mystical Salish native (Blue Jay Woman) simply cannot believe the fierce joy and deep peace Anna brings to his very soul -- and to his inner beast (Brother Wolf).Like Charles, Anna has also been lonely, but only for three years, since she "changed" into a werewolf at age 20 and was isolated from friends and family. Before that she was happy enough, attending college for a music degree, working in a music store, running in marathons, etc. After the change, she suffered vicious abuse, both sexual and physical, from the pack in Chicago (see prequel, Alpha and Omega). As a result, Anna has learned to retreat into her inner wolf, to let her animal endure the pain and terror.Now, with Charles fiercely watching her back, there's no need for fear, so Anna, an "omega" by nature, can finally become a gentle (but non-subservient) peace-bringer to her pack, perceptive and intuitive. She can develop the gift she was born to give, aided by her protective instincts, her music, and her sensitive compassion for tortured souls. Not a moment too soon, either. Together, they must defeat a very wicked, very old witch.Secondary Characters:Werewolves in Montana: Charles &amp; Anna, Bran &amp; Leah, Samuel, Sage, Asil "The Moor" (aka Hussan), Taggart (Tag), Walter Rice, the Vietnam war vet (loved him to pieces!) Others: Mariposa (Mary), Sarai, a few werewolves in Chicago (Boyd, George)About Bran:This book contains some great scenes with Bran as the POV shifts to him several times. We learn the back-story regarding Bran (and Samuel's) days in Old England, when they were both controlled by a witch till they killed, escaped, and sought refuge in a Welsh forest. I read at Briggs' website that Bran was named after Sir Marrok, one of the knights in King Arthur's court. According to legend, Sir Marrok's wife forced him to remain in werewolf form for seven years, by hiding his clothes (no clothing, no shifting). So maybe Bran dates back to around the fifth century. At any rate, in this book, Asil reflects on how Bran's legend influenced poems like Beowulf (told around 850-ish).Links to Mercy Thompson series:In Moon Called (MT#1) a teenager in Chicago is attacked by werewolves, changed, caged, drugged, and sold. His name is Alan MacKenzie Frasier (Mercy calls him Mac). In this story, Charles goes to Chicago to deal with the rogue werewolves who did it (Leo, Justin, etc.). Charles first meets his "omega" wolf Anna in Chicago. As far as cross-series characters go, Cry Wolf includes many scenes with Bran and a few with Samuel, but Adam and Mercy are only mentioned. Asil the Moor is a powerful werewolf who plays a good-sized role in this book and in MT #7,Frost Burned.A&amp;O series, with two shorts(books include werewolves, fae, vampires, witches, humans):0.5Alpha &amp; Omega: A Companion Novella to Cry Wolf, a novella set in Chicago1.Cry Wolfset in Aspen Creek, Montana1.5Strange Brewanthology introduces Tom and Moira in the short story "Seeing Eye" (Seattle)2.Hunting Ground, set in Seattle (with Tom and Moira in secondary roles)3.Fair Game, set in Boston4.Dead Heatset in Arizona, at a horse ranch, and in Scottsdale (Phoenix area)