"These children that come at you with knives--they are your children. You taught them. I didn't teach them. I just tried to help them stand up." - Charles Manson.On 9 August 1969, seven people were found shot, stabbed and bludgeoned to death in Los Angeles. America watched in fascinated horror as the killers were tried and convicted. This book details the crimes and murders of the Manson Family, as well as the trial that followed.This book was written by District Attorney for the Manson case, Vincent Bugliosi, which was one of my favourite aspects about this book. Every fact and detail of the trial is therefore more than likely accurate. The book is told chronologically beginning at the Tate murders, resulting in the trial and subsequent conviction of the Manson Family. This helped in keeping track of exactly what was going on, as there are so many key players within the Family.Charles Manson has always fascinated me, and I found this to be a really interesting look into what he was really like, what motivated him, how he got others to do his killing for him, his beliefs surrounding Helter Skelter, how he manipulated people, how he built the Family. Given how there were so many other members of the Family involved in these crimes, it would be easy to get confused as to who was who, but Bugliosi does a really good job of reminding you as to who each person is and also develops them so well that it would almost be hard to forget!The book is full of evidence that was found, excerpts from conversations/interviews that were taped, details of questions and answers given during the trial... the list goes on. Bugliosi also describes his trail of thought at each part, and this really gives a great insight into how lawyers think and present their case. I was literally in awe of how intelligent Bugliosi was and the skills needed to be an effective lawyer.This was such an enjoyable reading experience, I almost didn't want it to end. Definitely one I will revisit in years to come.