Say what you will about Stephenie Meyer, but she obviously has SOME sort of talent/method/magical fairy dust in order to write stories that get people hooked and make them react (whether positively/negatively doesn't really matter -- her stories garner very intense reactions). I fell in love with the Twilight books and harbored a cheesy adoration of the movies as well, though my fangirlishness came a little late to the game as I'd been turned off of vampire lore by all the Anne Rice books (happy to say that my eyes have been opened since then and now I enjoy quite a few different series in the vampire genre). Lately, though, I've found myself doubting my love of Stephenie Meyer. It really is hard to be a Twilight fan in a world where Stephenie Meyer gets little respect. I also don't really like to be lumped into the giggling gaggle of girls that make up the "twi-hards". So to be honest, I wasn't terribly excited about The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner. I didn't remember the character of Bree and it's been long enough since reading Eclipse that I don't really remember the whole scene where her character shows up in Eclipse. But the novella made its way onto my Kindle and I thought, hey, it's a 200 page guilty pleasure, might as well give it a try. I figured I'd get a ways in and give up, uninterested. Meanwhile, 2 hours later, I finished the whole thing in one sitting and found my faith in Stephenie Meyer and the world she's created renewed. It's such a simple story, and when you really think about it, not much happens in the story, but in those 200 pages, Meyer is able to bring to life Bree Tanner and make you care about her -- no, LOVE her, and Diego...and Fred. Oh, Fred. How I adore him. I hope he is, to this day, frolicking and repulsing people in Vancouver and parts unknown. Moreover, I sincerely hope that Fred makes another appearance sometime in the future.Reading this novella has left me feeling excited for the Eclipse movie coming out, as well as feeling a bit sad about Bree and Diego (even though one knows the outcome going into the story). I also really, sincerely hope that Meyer will continue exploring this whole universe she's created -- just like after reading Breaking Dawn, I want to know more about the vamps with (as Diego put it) "skillzzzzz", I want to know more about the individual tribes of vamps, I want to know more about the Volturi... I just want to know more!Love her, or hate her, anyone who is able to create such a compelling world deserves her place in our culture. Thank you, Stephenie Meyer, for reminding me of that.