My Thoughts: Wow, Wow, Wow! I tend to stay away from Sci-fi based novels but this one blew me away. As soon as I saw the summary I knew I wanted to read it, than the cover alone is worth buying it over.We are introduced to Amy right away and her thoughts and feelings. She is getting ready to be frozen and even the very beginning of the book is very intense. The first few pages made my stomach hurt because I felt so sorry for her because the decision she had to make was huge. Than a few pages later we meet Elder. He is the future leader of the ship; the Godspeed. He is being trained to take over the ship and lead his generation to their new home.Amy ends up getting woken up early and Elder does everything he can to try to make her more comfortable. He is very intrigued by this new girl. She is so different from everyone on the ship, her personality, her hair color, her looks, just everything. He finds her fascinating. Of course the leader of the ship right now, Elder does not like her at all. He finds her to be a nuisance and wants her gone.Their are so many secrets, lies, mysteries on the ship that there is never a dull moment and we are constantly learning new things. Amy's parents are still frozen and she fears they will be woken up just like she was, which she knows now was not an accident because a few others have been unfrozen left to die. And than there is The Season. It's basically where everyone starts mating to reproduce to keep the ships population going on. I hated it from the get go! Love needs to be natural, not predestined. I understand they need to keep humans on the ship but I wanted people to fall in love!I also loved all the characters in Across The Universe. There were a lot of side characters to keep the story going. I liked getting to know them all.No spoilers in this review because I don't want to spoil it for anyone so just read the book to find out what happens! What happens to Amy? Does she ever make it off the ship? Does Elder become leader? When does the ship land?Overall: I really loved this one. I'm usually not a big fan of sci-fi type books. I tend to stick with paranormal or contemp romance YA but this one had just striked my fancy. It was a wonderful book! Its a pretty thick book but I finished it within a day. Once I started, I didn't want to stop. I just had to know what was going to happen!!! It was also told in separate points of view so we got to experience things both with Amy and Elder!Loved that!Cover: The cover is beautiful. Its striking with just the right amount of colors. Very unique and pretty.What I'd Give It: 5/5 CupcakesTaken from Princess Bookiewww.princessbookie.com