No spoiler review.I have had this book on my shelf for a few years and I dubbed 2018 as the year I was going to check some boxes that needed to be checked.This book had been recommended to me countless times-in fact, *every single time* I ever mentioned that I am a huge fan of vampire lit.So I bought this with huge anticipation and BIG expectations since everyone I respect as a horror reader has rated it 4-5 stars.My first thoughts are on the writing. For me, this is the first time a translated book stood out as being obviously translated from its original language. I'm sure there was nothing lost in translation and the writing is fluid and beautiful-I can't quite put my finger on what it was that triggered it but once that switch was flipped, it stayed on-I was very aware of it, somehow.Also, major props to Lindqvist for great character development-this is clearly his wheelhouse.Story-wise this is dark, dark, really dark subject matter. At times, I felt like skimming or turning away because Lindqvist doesn't shy away from the graphic, obscene, uncomfortable details that I honestly, don't want to know.And sometimes I questioned if certain things (pedophilia) was even necessary to the story. I mean, if in the sense it added to the creepiness, then YES-it certainly did but in the sense of adding to the story, I could easily do without it. (and I did skim through one scene, actually-make that two. Just too much for me and also why I docked it a star)I loved how this book stands totally alone in some ways-for being a part of vampire lore, it borrowed from some typical vampire-ish legends but it also took the genre and flipped it on its head-there is tons of originality here. TONSThe relationship between Eli and Oskar was my favorite part of this tale--also I really enjoyed reading about Virginia and her transformation-that will go down, easily, as the scariest, most realistic vampire transformation I've ever read.The ending of this book was the best part, 1. Because it's perfect and 2. because I was ready for this to be over--not something I would choose to read again, actually. It's not a feel good story at all.But, this is a gold standard book for fans of horror and more specifically, fans of vampire lit. If you haven't read it, add it to your short list.Now to watch the Swedish version of the movie!