So in a month and a half, I finished Swan Song.This epic, apocalyptic story has been a part of my life, forever in the background of my mind for so many days, it will feel weird for awhile to not be continuing on in the journey-but I know that it doesn't really completely go away. Now it's a part of the framework.I've heard a lot of people compare this book to Stephen King's The Stand.I have no idea why, other than this is a story that is both apocalyptic and horrific. There is a prolific antagonist that may or may not be the devil, but for me, that's where the similarities end.McCammon leans a little heavier on fantasy/magical realism here so in a way, I found this book to be more comparable to the Lord of the Rings, actually.We follow a few groups of travelers who go through tremendous trials in order to meet their end goal. Both groups of travelers are protecting a very special gift.The gifts are supernaturally trying to come together and for 900+ pages, it is our very special treat to watch events unfold and experience Robert McCammon's unique talent of both exceptional storytelling and character building.In particular, I found McCammon's "bad guys" immensely compelling. Especially the character Roland, who we meet as a child (a creepy child) and get to watch him grow into a monster. I looked forward to the chapters with Roland's story.Other favorites were our protagonists/heroes: Swan, Josh and Sister.---Not going to go into the plot or overshare here because truly, if you're a fan of horror and epic dystopian adventures, this one is a MUST and it needs to be full of individual discovery---My own feelings:This is my third Robert McCammon novel and I'm falling in love with his writing style. He's much warmer on the details than Stephen King, actually. His wheelhouse is drawing the reader into a strangely intimate headspace where the experiences the characters go through feel familiar; nostalgic and easy to relate to.Swan Song is an emotional read for me. I disappeared into its pages in an unexplainable, immersive way--it was almost unreadable at work because time would go by so quickly, it felt as though I didn't even have a lunch break-so I mainly read this one at home-at night in my bed.Readers who have a faith in something bigger than themselves, a spiritual background will enjoy the way Robert McCammon handles that with some of his believing characters.So I'll leave with my recommendation here:This book is amazing. I loved every page of it. The book never felt idle--each word bore intention and purpose. I was never bored or confused. I felt like I was sitting at the feet of an experienced storyteller telling me the most epic, fully fleshed out story of his career. Boy's Life is still my favorite though, hahahah. The Listener would be second and this book is a solid third favorite. If you haven't read this one, you must buy it and carve out ample space in your TBR to enjoy it. Savor it.