I thought that this was a really interesting and thought provoking book. Watching Ayla discover the nature of the world around her was genuinely exciting.This book really made me think about the way things are. Although Ayla's world is different from ours, she too has to deal with learning new things. I've always wondered why things are the way they are- why do we speak different languages? Why do we speak at all?Ayla does consider the first question. When Jondalar tells her that only his people speak the language that she spent so much time learning, she is angry and confused. All of the Clan people speak with simmilar gestures, and this makes communication simple.Whenever I go to a foreign country, it's SO frustrating if I can't understand what's going on. Not only their language, but their customs and beliefs. Why do different people have different beliefs? It's just one of those facts of life that we've come to accept.It's easier not to question something when you're told that that's the way it is, but sometimes the harder way is more beneficial. No one really knows why things are the way they are, and there's not really any way to get an explanation.Learning to live with it is one solution, but Ayla takes the opposite approach. She questions everything that goes on around her, and won't accept an easy answer. I think that this makes her character interesting and fun to read about. She's also really inspiring. She's incredibly modest and curious, and I think that more people should question nature the way she does.People are too accepting in our world, and I am not excluding myself in that generalization. That might have been part of Jean M. Auel's purpose in writing this book. Ayla is used to having to accept things and do what she's told in the Clan, but her instincts tell her otherwise. When she is alone with Jondalar, she has no trouble questioning every little thing he does.And without question I think that itisnormal for people to be curious and unsure when introduced to something new. This is repressed in us, as are many things. When little children ask too many questions, their parents are quick to reprimand them. It's hard to overcome these habits that are stored in our earliest memories. When I am curious about something, my mind tends to just move onto a new topic, rather than me being annoying.Things are the way they are. It's an easy statement to accept without further explanation. I guess the truth is that there is no explanation, so we have been programmed to think that it's not important. But curiosity is important, and it is people like Ayla who make great discoveries in the real world.