At what point do you give up - decide enough is enough? There is only one answer really. NeverThis is a story about Forbidden love...When I say this is about Forbidden love I mean it. I am kinda tired of reading about contemporary "forbidden" stories as I always find a way for the characters to be together, I never feel their love is really that forbidden but this book tells us a story about something really forbidden by the society, by the world we live in... I think this is the book I've been waiting on FOR EVER.When I read the plot I just loved it (yeah, you are probably thinking I am sick but I don't care). I knew I was gonna love this book but OMG, I never ever thought I was gonna love it that much.Locha &amp; Maya are siblings but they are also best friends, they are also parents for their 3 younger siblings and they are also IN LOVE. They don't see each other as we all see our siblings, they are like a married couple, they share responsibilities they are not supposed to have taking into account they are so young but they simply have to. You might want to read this from the author, she explains why she wrote this book and she tells how she also had to take care of her younger siblings:http://tabithasuzuma.blogspot.com.es/...If there's one thing my mother excels at, it's minding her own businessTheir mother just doesn't give a shit about her kids, she is just "leaving the dream", she is dating someone and she just doesn't care about her family... She thinks Locha &amp; Maya should skip school and start working so they can pay for everything (as if taking care of their siblings is not enough).Because at the end of the day that's what we're all trying to do: fit in, one way or another, desperately trying to pretend we're all the sameGuys don't panic, this story is not a drama all the time. Lochie &amp; Maya are best friends and they care for each other, they are funny, they are PERFECT..."I've never seen anyone sleep with their head hanging off the back of a wooden chair before - was the couch not comfortable enough for you?"But one day everything changes because Lochie realizes he feels much more for Maya...I just forgot for one insane moment, that Maya was my sisterHow I wish she wouldn't walk around in that thing; how I wish her copper hair wasn't so long and shiny; how I wish she didn't have those eyes, that she wouldn't just wander in uninvited. How I wish the sight of her didn't fill me with such unease, twisting my insides, tensing every muscle in my body, setting my pulse thrummingAnd one day the are alone at home, they start dancing salsa and they both realized they love being together, they love the feel of their bodies together... Lochie decides to stay as much away as possible from her and she thinks dating someone else might be a good idea, although..."He is my soul mate, my fresh air, the reason I look forward to getting up every morning"It's always nice being fancied. It's always nice being wanted. Even if it's by the wrong personLochie tries to convince himself that Maya's date is a good idea but he is obviously suffering...How it is possible to hurt so much when nothing is wrongNico is a nice guy but Maya is not even remotely interested in him and when he tries to kiss her she just refuses kissing him and goes home... and this happens to be one of the best scenes of the book. Lochie starts questioning her about the date, he is so jealous he is even accusing her of being like their mother so she has to explain him everything, including the reason why she was not able to kiss Nico.Lochie's lips are rough yet smooth, hard yet gentle. His fingers are strong: I feel them in my hair and on my neck and down my arms and against my back. And I never want him to let me go[image error]How can something so wrong feel so right?But they know their situation is not easy so they try to stop their feelings but they obviously fail because they love each other too much.At the end of the day, what the hell does it matter who I end up with if it can't be you?I love you, so much that it's killing me, yet all I can do is push you away and hurt you until eventually your love will turn to hateBeing together, we harm nobody; being apart, we extinguish ourselvesAs I don't really want to spoil the story because the second part of the book is really hard (yet beautiful), I am just gonna talk about my favorite parts/quotes of the second half of the book:*The bracelet moment "Maya, love you for ever. Lochan x"*But I don't want to be fine, not if it means she's going to let go of my hand; not if it means we're going to go back to being polite strangers*"There are no laws, no boundaries on feelings. We can love each other as much and as deeply as we want. No one, Maya, no one can ever take that away from us"*Their Ashmoore Park moment:*The love they have for their younger siblings. I loved all of them, even Kit (I forgive you).*"Whatever happens, there will always be us"* "In sickness and in health?" she asks. "Till death us do part?"I shake my head."Way beyond that," I say. "For ever"* "If the phone rings, I'm unplugging it, I swear to God-""You'd do that to your five-year-old sister?" I gasp in mock outrage."For one whole night alone? Jesus, Maya, I'd sell her to the gypsies!"This book make me stop and think. I am never going to forget the feelings I had while reading it, I am never gonna forget the tears, the good and bad moments. What I do know is I will never ever judge any kind of relationship as you never know what you would do until you experience something. Judging is easy and even though this is fiction we never know how many siblings have been in this situation before and maybe if people were less judgemental we could live in a better world.Tabitha many thanks for this book, for these characters that will live with me FOR EVER.One last thing, I would love this book to be published in spanish as there are a lot of spanish people who wanna read it and they don't speak english so if you can take a second and have a look on the below link I would really appreciate it:http://www.activism.com/es_ES/peticio...You just need to click on firmar con facebook (sign with you FB account) or twitterI really recommend this AMAZING book to EVERYONE, guys pls read it :)-----------RE-READ &amp; BR ON MAY 2013. RE-LOVED IT. Thanks Pavlina, Melissa and Meli for making me read this one again. x