Fourth Read - December 2017: 5 stars!!!Third Read - October 2015: 5 stars!!!Second Read - November 2014: 4 starsFirst read - September 2014: 4 starsI don't know what else I can say except that I still loved it. This is the Third Official Re-read for the MacHalo Group and I tagged along because some hadn't read it yet. So.... good enough reason for me to read it again! :))I'll always be biased for this series and I love Barrons and Mac and the world so much! This series made - and still makes - me fall in love with reading. Every time.Our first annual re-read of the Fever series with theMacHalo groupstarts October 26, 2015! Here's the schedule (sorry, I can't keep to a schedule with this series - it takes over and I have to devour it once I start):Darkfever: October 26Bloodfever: November 9Faefever: November 23Dreamfever: December 7Shadowfever: December 21Iced: January 5Burned: January 12New thoughts on third read:Wow. How did I ever give this anything less than 5 stars?!?!?! This book is amazingly strong on world-building and we get our first glimpse of several future KEY players, like Dani, Christian, Ryodan, Rowena... I found the scenes with Barrons so much more poignant and "full of feels." KMM did some amazing writing and story-telling here. I still remain SUCH a fangirl for this series. For me, it holds up 100%.Original second re-read thoughts:I kept my original rating.BARRONS. In this re-read, I found myself just waiting for the Barrons sections to come up. Never enough Barrons.This book introduced some great new characters and expanded some characters that were barely introduced inDarkfever. There was more world-building in this one than action. It wasn't until the last 30% of the book or so before it became a page-turner. But I still loved reading about the world KMM has created. A lot of interesting things happen in this, lots of little things, that will prove to all add up as the books go on.(view spoiler)[ I love that Barrons tattooed Mac anyway because she should have let him and he proved that he knows what he's talking about. Loved the almost-sex scene in the Burren. Y-u-m. I totally forgot the reaper/specter Mac kept seeing was Malluce! So it was like reading it for the first time. I think he made a good villain.(hide spoiler)]Mac still clings to her old life and mindset a few times, but she learns fast. It's only been a few months and she becomes a bad-ass in this one. It's funny to read my original review because it looks like I was already having Barrons-angst because I thought he wasn't in it enough. (Mac meets and has interactions with several -some of them new- characters. Like I said above, there are a lot of conversations and inner monologues in this one.)Original review:Another great addition to the Fever series. I liked this one better than the first and there was a lot of action and wonderful world-building. I do hope Barrons doesn't stay the same enigmatic character for every book. He dashes in, helps Mac, they have sexually-charged banter, and he disappears again. I can already feel that would get old if it remains that way book to book.