"There's nothing like a bunch of catty teenagers who could either kick your ass halfway across the country or set you on fire with a mere thought.That alone changed who people picked fights with or became friends with.And at the end of the day, it was always good to have a Firestarter in your back pocket."Okay soooo As a HUGE Vampire Academy fan please allow me to adress the whole "It's just like V.A. Issue"..... Well it did have several moments especially in the beginning as well as the concept that held an uncanny resemblance to Vampire Academy, there's no denying that, however keep reading becauseHalf-Bloodtransforms into something unique and desirable that will capture the hearts of their own fans. In Half-Blood the premise revolves around mythical creatures which I'm finding very intriguing at this moment.Meet Alexandria, or more preferably known asAlex, she's smart, witty, fascinating, sarcastic, irresponsible, and basically thinks she's "bad-ass" like every other seventeen year old and she charmed me from page one. She's considered aHalf-Blood; with her father a mundane human and her mother aHematoia very powerful race of Pure-Bloods, a product of the Greeks shacking up after the demigods died. She finds herself back at the Covenant living on Deity Island after her mom succumbed to an attack by force from a group of Daimons."She was everything to me!" I jumped to my feet. "She did nothing but think of me. What happened to her was horrific---'tragic' is for people who die in car wrecks!"Daimonsare basically the Strigoi of this series, but they drink blood from Pures and Half to obtain the Aether carried in their bloodstream. If you can't get past the Vampire Academy similarities stop now, but if you can you're in for an awesome new series because it takes us readers on an entirely different ride than Vampire Academy. It's equally emotionally charged but look put because the plot is uniquely heartbreaking, breathtaking, and exciting!!!!:-)"Just picture me as the enemy Alexandria."Oh that won't be too hard, Dean Andros."I raised my hands and motioned him forward. I was a total badass."Alex becomes determined to become a Sentinel guard to protect others from the tragic incident with the Daimons that has changed her life forever. In many ways she's wise beyond her seventeen years and at times she's just a struggling teenager with fantasies of love and immeasurable dreams.Her best friendCalebwas an extremely desirable best friend to have and he was hilarious!!! I found him extremely likable and a very reliable friend to Alex. What I love most is that they both supportive friends and that just it; they're platonic friends with no desire of a relationship, a productive example once again that males and females can be just friends. I look forward to more of Caleb throughout this series.Caleb stood up as I walked into the living room."You look hot."I scrunched up my face."You think this is hot?"He laughed as he turned toward the door."No"Then there's the sexyAidenSt. Delfi, a Full Blood also referred to asHematoi; he's fiercely responsible and dedicated to training Alex to becoming a powerful Sentinel. He also unbeknownst to himself has been in possesion of the key to Alex's heart for the past three years. Quickly he becomes her confidant, mentor, and masculine shoulder to cry on. He proves himself crushworthySwoonalong the way and you cannot help but encourage the budding relationship between Alex and Aiden because he's loyal, trustworthy, strong, and cares about Alex's well being above his own. When Aiden St. isn't training his forbidden crush Alex he is carrying out the parental figure with his alcoholic abusing fun loving, promiscuous brother Deacon and each and every scene he's in was a mixture of fun and rebellion.But wait because the list of lustworthy males is still in abundance because I can't seem to get dangerously giftedSethTheApollyonout of my thoughts, especially since he is also described as being inhumanely gorgeous by Alex."I knew you were here. Not you so to speak. But I knew someone---someone different. I felt it outside, before I entered the lobby. It was like a magnetic pull. I zeroed in on you immediately. That has never happened before."he unfolded his arms to reach for me. I pulled back. There were a multitude of reasons why I didn't want him to touch me. Alarmed that he was actually going to,I blurted out the first thing that came to my mind."I saw your tattoos."Seth froze. Hell he no longer looked like he wanted to touch me, or be in the same zip code as me.The Apollyon is a unique and rare anomaly amongst the half bloods. As an Apollyon he has mastered every element at a Full Blood's disposal such asAir, Water, Fire, as well as Earth Spells and Compulsionsall at once and his blood is merely classified as a half blood. Often he's feared and revered amongst his kind as almost a deity as he is all powerful and has no limitations on what powers are at his disposal. He holds plenty of mystery as well as inherited gifts that enables him to be more powerful than even the purest of Hematoi. There's something about a mystically charismatic character with a bit of a feisty naughty boy quality that captures my attention and mesmerizes me tonoend.For those readers like myself that need plenty of males to gush about in not only do we get funny lovable Caleb, but we get Fiercely responsible Aiden, irresponsible Deacon and mysterious Seth.I can already see that this premiere series byJennifer L. Armentroutwill be on my favorites list. This book was amazing and with all of it's plot twists and turns, I can't even imagine what is in store for us readers inPure Bloodnext year.Alex begins this journey as a rebellious adolescent, that unfortunately has to grow up when she is faced with the task of killing someone she loves in a technique of self preservation.What was I supposed to do? Kill her, Run from her. Save her somehow?She endures all this angst while enjoying a taste of love, experiencing immeasurable pain, fortunately she has the comforting embrace of a loyal and devoted friend.Alex receives an electrifying revelation that will change her life forever as a predestined future set forth by the gods before her. I'mObsessedexcited to find out how this revelation into her bloodline is carried out with this series and a certain someone.I can't say enough wonderfully awesome things about this book! Iloved, loved, loved it!!!For all of you readers that enjoy an exciting page turner this is the book for you."This cannot be happening."He looked up his eyes glowed in the darkness. The bewildered look faded replaced by anger."We're going to die."Like what you see here, check out more of my reviews athttp://missvainsparanormalfantasy.com/