Paranormal/fantasy books are not my favorite genre, but every once in a while I like to read one to change things up a bit. This one had been sitting on my TBR list for quite some time and when I saw the Audible edition on sale, I decided that it was as good a time as ever to finally give it a listen. While I'd by lying if I said that it was the kind of book that makes me fall in love with the characters and rush out to grab a copy of the next book in the series, I can't deny that I enjoyed it.The story centers on a seventeen year-old girl who was born into a "secret society" of sorts. She is what is called a half-blood, born of a pure-blood "Hematoi" mother and a human father. She was schooled at the Covenant, where pure-bloods and half-bloods train to be Sentinels - fighters that hunt daimons, the evil pure-bloods that feed off of other pure-bloods.However, before Alexandria could complete her training her mother leaves the Covenant, taking her with her. The two are on the run, hunted by the Covenant's sentinels. When they fall prey to the daimons, Alexandria's mother is killed and Alexandria is returned to the Covenant.Upon her return, Alexandria is given a mixed reception. Her uncle and stepfather seem to be out for her blood, wanting to relegate her to the role of a servant. She is unexpectedly championed by Aiden St. Delphi, the sentinel that is the best of the best and as good-looking as he is talented as a fighter.Aiden argues that Alexandria has a lot of potential as a fighter. He was impressed with the way she held her own against the daimons, even managing to kill successfully. This is a feat that is practically unheard of, especially for a half-blood that has not completed training.He proposes that he be allowed to personally teach Alexandria. If he can get her caught up on the training that she has missed, then she will be allowed to return to train with the others. There isn't much time and the odds are against them, but he's confident that it can be done.When Alexandria's uncle reluctantly agrees to Aiden's plan, the clock starts counting down. Alexandria undergoes rigorous training, growing closer to Aiden with every day. She cannot deny her attraction to him, but knows that nothing can ever come of it because unions between half-bloods and pure-bloods are strictly forbidden.Making matters more complicated is Alexandria's youthful, often immature, disposition. She is wild and reckless. Often, she fails to recognize the implications of her actions, acting out in dangerous ways. It is almost like she wants to be kicked out of the program, even as she denies this wholeheartedly.Things come to a head when Alexandria is faced with an impossible situation. Her loyalties are tested and she finds herself in more danger than she'd ever imagined. However, new facts come to light, revealing that she is far more important than anyone had ever known before.All things considered, this was a great book. I enjoyed it, but it was a little innocent for my tastes. It was written with a younger, teen audience in mind, so it hit it's mark for the genre. However, I require a little more steam.While the brewing love story between Aiden and Alexandria was tantalizing, it was more like a tease. The primary focus of the story was on the paranormal/action aspects. I needed less fight scenes and more romance. That being said, if you're looking for a paranormal/fantasy book with a lot of action, then this is a fantastic choice.At some point, I might continue the series, but I'm not worried about it right now. For me, personally, it just wasn't compelling enough. I don't have that anxious, impatient need to get my hands on the next one, like I do when a read a favorite. Nothing wrong with it, just not my cup of tea.