She stood firm in the midst of ridicule. She chose life in the middle of war. She took action instead of simply staying silent to atrocity. She gave people books and stories to take them away from their dismal worlds of hunger and strife. Despite being a little woman who was pitied and bullied because of her height, she chose people and books. She was not all good, but she was not all bad. She was human.Staying close to the jetty, she'd streak through the shallow water like a frog, dive to the brown sediment of mud and let it billow around her, wishing her body matched its color so she could let it camouflage her. Here, the river belonged to her. In the water she felt graceful, weightless even, and when she moved her arms and legs, they felt long.This novel is about dreams, about the wants and desires of people forced into poverty, about the price for being different, about the cruelty of humanity.She was born to a mother who went insane once she saw what seemed like a large head and small limbs of her beautiful daughter, Trudi. They call her azwerg, dwarf. Friends betray her, attack her, misuse her. The town shuns her, pities her. Can she find happiness, she wonders constantly? Can she get married someday and have children? Can she love herself, or will she continue to hang from the molding in the living room, stretching her limbs in order to get taller? Despite her turmoil, she has a father's unconditional, tender love. She has stability at the pay-library they own. She has her imagination, and with it, she becomes powerful again and very useful to the town.Somehow, this spring was infusing her with new strength and hope, a deceptive hope, she reminded herself, and yet it soothed her, took her back to the river where, in the shallows below the weeping willows, the water had taken on a peculiar shade of opaque green as though it had soaked up the color of the new leaves, a green that suggested tranquility, reverence almost.This story of the Montag family and the many characters that inhabit their lives during World War II Germany is not what I would call a page-turner. In the beginning it almost lost me, when a five-year old's point of view seemed too mature. Yet the novel is poised and elegiac. It moves at its own pace, inserts backstory between dialogue at its leisure, and infuses various character viewpoints at random moments. The story is sharp, the main character Trudi is alluring to follow, the scenes flow gracefully, and the infusing of political history is inciting and rich.