OK, yesterday I finished the book....... and I am having a very hard time choosing the stars and knowing what to say! Yes, it is a very, very good book, BUT STILL it only received 4 rather then 5 stars. The positive first! The book is speckled with marvelous lines that get you thinking. For example - "by getting closer to a smaller world, she had found a larger world." Think about that and how true it is! Trudi, the main character's father has died. She says, "What she missed most was the certainty of being able to share small details of your life with someone who knew you so well. Who else would possibly care what you'd thought while looking out of the window or what you'd eaten for breakfast?" I feel the reader is strengthened, can learn something about how to live their life by having these small inconsequential views pointed out. And of course, I agree.On the larger scale, that which the book is maybe "talking about", is German behavior during the Second World War. This too was well depicted, allowing all different character types to be represented. This part of the book was very difficult for me to read. In all honesty, I began skimming. I couldn't deal with all the atrocities, depicted one after the other. There was no light anywhere, and in a sense I find this not to be correct. How do you get through terrible times? Only be seeking out the small things that can make one smile. Furthermore, the author discusses EVERYONE in the village. It got to be too much for me. I couldn't keep everyone straight, but yes I did care about them. How can you write a book that isn't depressing about a time such as this? Well the "Book Thief" by Kusak manages, by interspersing some points of joy in the blackness. It is possible to achieve. For this reason I finally chose 4 over 5 stars!This book revolves around so many different themes: the value of story telling, how people choose to live their lives in so diametrically opposed manners, the value of kindness, what is it that makes one person valued by friends and another not, about being "different" and, if I can say it one more time, about kindness. Should I have given it 5 stars? Perhaps, but something keeps me back!This was written when I started the book:I have only read about 100 pages, but the writing has captured me. Beautiful! Not beautiful in a flat descriptive way, but more that the author captures the souls of her characters. Should I quote a few lines? I am not sure if that would clearly express how these lines make the characters come alive! Here follows one short line to chuckle over. When Trudi is invited by her friend Georg to the blessing of cars, bikes, farm machines and other vehicles by the holy water of the village pastor, Trudi is told by Herr Abramowitz that "catholic water rusts Jewish cars!"Lately I have been reading such marvelous books. It is not that I am generous with praise, but rather that GoodReads is a fabulous site where readers can discover the books that they are seeking and where one is introduced to books that one has never before encountered. I just had to say that I really love this site! My only worry is that publishing companies and / or authors turn it into an advertising medium! What a shame that would be.