This is a very dense book, with many characters and spanning many years. I had a hard time reading it because it is set in Germany between 1915 and 1952. There is a strong emotional impact, enough that I had to put the book down at one point and read something light-hearted before I could come back to it.The story starts in 1915 when Trudi, a dwarf, is born to Mr. and Mrs. Montag. Mrs. Montag is mentally unbalanced but her husband is very patient and loving, both with his wife who dies when Trudi is 3, and with his daughter. The community is brought to life for us through the eyes of Trudi as she struggles to grow, to fit in, to be like others. But we see as she gets older that she is a questioning child and not weak willed. She has a knack for seeing into people and teasing out their secrets. Her father runs the lending library in town and sells tobacco as well, they have a lot of contact with nearly everyone in town.As I read all this pre-war story I had such a strong sense of terror. The birds were singing, the children were playing, people were going about their daily lives; but from the vantage point of history I knew bloody murder on a grand scale was about to happen. I found myself twisted up with fear and dread, and this is the point where I had to take a break from the book.When I went back to it I was determined to stick it out. I already knew what happened in WWII in Germany, I am at a distance of a number of years, I would read at a remove. I would accept the pain and keep slogging through. It is kind of a long book, I stayed up two entire nights in my determination to finish it.The author was good at creating some sympathy for the citizens caught up in the war, those who tried to resist and were shunned, imprisoned, killed. Those who believed the regime was good for the country, those who came home from the war, destroyed by what they had seen, what they had done. How allegiances were demanded, and remanded. Many of people were extremely frightened and just tried to keep their heads down and do what they were told. Some people were brave and hid their Jewish neighbors, some people informed, others kept secrets. I think one of the saddest aspects of this book was seeing the destruction of the boys we watched grow up in the earlier part of the book, whether they actually died in battle or came home physically or mentally or emotionally damaged.We can see how the early religious education was polarizing, the instruction in obedience, the emotional appeal to patriotism, the turning of family members against each other by the Hitler Youth movement, and the turning of neighbor against neighbor through fear. It is really frightening to see how many, many lives were lost because of this one man's success in building his empire. It took the weight of the world to topple it and try to save everyone who had survived from the madness. Why does this happen, why do we love to have causes, follow leaders, join groups, make armies? Trudi is not a quiet character during this section of the book; she becomes a young woman, in love; she hides Jews in her basement as one of the safe bases to smuggle people out of the country.The end of the book follows the community through the aftermath of the war, a difficult time as well.I did not actually understand the last few pages, but was so tired of reading the book that I did not make a serious effort to really nail it down. It is a very exhausting book to read.I'll end this review with a quote from the book, picked because it is really what I want to be the future of the human race, that we can and will be different but that those differences won't matter."And what she wanted more than anything that moment was for all the differences between people to matter no more--differences in size and race and belief--differences that had become justification for destruction."