I.Loved.This.Book! I.Love.ALL.Simone.Elkeles.Books!!Perfect! That's my one word to describe this masterpiece!I loved thePerfect Chemistryand even though this was a book companion to the first and I'm usually fussy about that, it just never occurred to me to mind. This book was everything I hoped it would be and then some. It was perfect!InRules of Attractionwe meet Carlos Fuentes, Alex's seventeen year old brother, who was shipped to Colorado to live with him. But Carlos lands with a big chip on his shoulder the size ofMeh-hee-co, being that he doesn't do rules and he thinks his brother is uncool since he's no longer the legendary thug he once looked up too.Needless to say he's not very happy when he learns that he can't just hang out and have fun, he's got to go to high school, and even worse he's got this unattractive girl named Kiara who has to be his "peer guide" and show him around school for a week.What happens when the rules of attraction change, but you just don't know it yet?Hands down! Simone Elkeles has this amazing gift the way she breaths heart and soul into her writing. Her plots, her characters are all filled with this incredible energy that leaves you completely involved that your world just disappears. This was devoured in one sitting and once again left me with this unbelievable awed reaction every time I read her books. Powerful and strong, I could never get enough! One of my all time greats!Told from both Carlos and Kiara POV's, get ready to read one masterful tale of two completely different people who will blow open each others world in all the greatest ways.Carlos is the biggest punk I ever did read, even more so then Alex (if you could believe it), at times he was infuriating and exasperating being such a hot head with an overly confident ego to boot. But there are always two sides to a soul and Carlos has a side to him you wouldn't want to miss for the world.I loved Kiara right away, she's the perfect match. For a shy girl, she's someone who doesn't take his crap and isn't afraid to dish it out herself. I admire that in a character, plus she has one of thee sweetest families that play secondary, but have a huge impact in this book and I can't leave out Tuck, who I thought was HILARIOUS. I loved those parts with him and Carlos, so, so entertainingly funny!!This plot was intense, but not in the dramatic and dangerous ways that Perfect Chemistry was in.Rules of Attraction is a love story, the kind that you'll always remember with a happy smile on your face. It's challenging, unsure, vulnerable, sweet and smoldering-hot that rings true when it comes to these Fuentes boys. A lot of laugh out moments and honest touching moments and then there are moments that made my inner-teen gush like a love sick girl that I most definitely am. Oh, and for any fans out there that want to see Alex and Brittany, no worries, they make frequent appearances which I absolutely adored since it wouldn't be the same without them.All in all Rules of Attraction is about letting go of the past, love, trust, and to believe in a life you didn't think you could have.Beautiful, Sexy and Unforgettable!Simone Elkeles has done it again, and my only hope is she keeps doing it again and again and again...!(A)Must Read This Now Please!(book);)