Poe has an impressive, comfortable grasp of vocabulary and sentence structure, but like King, one sentence often equates to one paragraph. The first story to catch my interest was 100 pages in-The Gold Bug, a brief tale of treasure hunting. This was soon followed by Marie Roget. For those of you who find this tale of interest, check out The Beautiful Cigar Girl, a nonfiction account of Mary Rogers' death and investigation, as well as An American Tragedy, a fictional rendering of a crime based on a similar scenario.Then we come to a masterpiece-The Purloined Letter. Poe lays the groundwork for every ratiocination plot to come. How I could be such a Holmes fan and have never read this story is beyond me. I should be ashamed.Immediately after is The Tell Tale Heart. This short story conjures memories of 7th grade literature class. I was scared out of my wits! Then there is The Imp of the Perverse, what reminds me of stream of consciousness writing, merely subtract "murder" and add "alcohol". Of course no discussion of Poe's works would be complete without s mention of The Masque of the Red Death. Just party til you cant party anymore because you'll never outrun death. The Assignation may be the most tragic short love story I've ever read, and I did not expect that from him. Dr. Tarr and Professor Fether was brilliant fun. And then he goes off the deep end with several spiritualist writings. I realize the theosophist movement was in its heyday, but I really did not see a deep connection. Then suddenly I read The Spectacles. Truly I laughed so hard. I had no idea Poe had such a sense of humor considering most of his writing is so morose.Oh the poems, the poems! Greatly excited to read this section. Every Halloween, I go to an historical museum here in the city that produces quite a few of Poe's seminal works. The Raven never fails to give me the chills. I can easily sense the hysteria building in the room. But then I read The Valentine, a bit of a coded piece, which doesn't surprise me in the least that Poe would have written. Ulalume's metric beat is absolutely hypnotic, forcing me to read it aloud. Annabel Lee screams about an unhinged lover. I'll be honest; I never thought much about this poem, but it is simply heartbreaking, not only because she is dead, but because he is obsessed with her. At last, my favorite Poe poem-The Bells. I can hear them 'clanging, tolling, chiming".Nowhere is Poe's tortured soul more evident than in his poetry. However, his intelligence is expressed in his prose. All in all, I am quite thankful for this author's ouvere. He truly touched my heart.