Pop quiz: what's the name of that book with the physically deformed protagonist who's got paternity uncertainty and lives his own country's history? You know, he's got a superpower that sort of fades in and out as the book progresses, and, if I recall correctly, a relative who can cook feelings into soups. And he falls in with a group of weird kids with comical nicknames like Eyeslice and PuttPutt. No, it's notMidnight's Children. I'm talking about the one with the narrator who tells the whole story in retrospect from a point far in the future, and can only tell it through an object, and keeps switching from first person to third person narration when the story gets painful. You've read it; it's really long, well over 500 pages, huge cast of characters. Hell, the main character's birth doesn't even occur for 50 pages. Yes, I'm sure it's notMidnight's Children. Give up? It'sThe Tin Drum.Seriously, though. If I'd known beforehand how muchMidnight's Childrenowed to Grass, I don't think I would have liked it nearly as much. It's like Rushdie readThe Tin Drumand said to himself, I'd like to do this exact thing, but with India. And he did.It took me a long time to get into this; after 200 pages I was still thinking it was only okay. Impressive, yes. Prodigious, even. But enjoyable? Not as much. I think most of this is due to the fact that Europe itself is a total mystery to me. I mean, I've been there. I know things about it. But I don'tunderstandit. Europe's history is one of occupation, and therefore of compromise. England was controlled originally by the Picts and Celts (and others, I think - my history knowledge is not great these days), and was invaded and taken over by Romans, then by Anglo-Saxons, then by the Danes, then by the Normans. To say nothing of their history of foreign kings. And England is on an island, so who can say how many ethnic groups have controlled, at one time or another, parts of central Europe?The US has never really been invaded, not in the traditional sense. We've never had to submit to any sort of foreign rule or law. Even when we were colonies, the UK more or less left us alone, except for those pesky taxes. So I'm constitutionally unable to quickly comprehend the sort of culture that has endured conquest. Not that I'm incapable of learning anything from books. For this one, it just took a while.But I suspect that's not the only thing that caused me to get more and more interested inThe Tin Drumas it went on. I really think it just gets progressively better. Normally I have big problems with translations, since so much of the pleasure of reading, for me, comes from prose style. But Mitchell nails it. "Built up, chopped down, wiped out, hauled back, dismembered, remembered..." These are things you can do with memories. In the original German, those words were made-up, coinages. But Mitchell has found a way to make them make sense while still being aesthetically sound. What a guy.InMidnight's Children,Saleem tells his story through pickling, because for him, you can't preserve something without fundamentally changing it. InThe Tin Drum, Oskar tells his story through a drum, because (apparently) you can't say something without shouting it. And therein lies my main problem with the book. I think Oskar's an irritating and despicable protagonist, and I'm not at all sure this is a common interpretation. He decides early in life never to grow up, because he doesn't want to be involved in the world of adults. This seems noble at first, to anyone who believes in the innocence of small children (but come on, who hasn't been shocked by the brazen attitude of kids who've just learned how to lie?), but we quickly find out that Oskar doesn't intend to give up the sex and violence of the adult world; he just wants to avoid the responsibility. That, and he's kind of a psychopath. Saying much more than that would necessitate spoilers, so I'll stop there.Oskar's quirks notwithstanding, this is underread and underrated. Here's a quote pulled almost at random to help convince you: "As attractive as the thought of a trip with the extremely slender, downy blond Ulla was, I still feared becoming too intimate with a Muse. You have to keep the Muses at a distance, I told myself, otherwise the Muse's kiss will start to taste like everyday fare. Better to travel with Lankes, who slaps his Muse when she tries to kiss him."(See?? I told you Oskar's despicable.)