Celebrity Death Matchversus Heart of Darkness.Dear Christopher Robin,Your father and I miss you but we feel that it would be best if you spent the remainder of the summer at camp, as previously agreed. You quit the boy scouts, band and your newspaper route to spend more time with those... things. Really, my son, you are much too told to play with... stuffed animals. To think, all my friends in the bridge meetings have all-star athlete sons and honor roll daughters to brag about. I have Christopher Robin. You may be a hero in your bedroom, in the night, but I have to make up things about you to boast about. How you saved your friend, E., from getting lost in the woods. Or your friend W. who flew into the tree tops on too many hot air balloons. The tales are getting quite ridiculous. You should make regular old human boy friends (you aren't gay, are you? Your father thinks that maybe...). It is about time. I have put up your toys for sale in a garage sale and a nice man named Kurtz came to purchase them. He gave me a very nice ivory musical instrument set in exchange for them. I bragged for a month of bridge meetings about that coup! Well, we'll see you at the end of the summer. Please, at least try to get a tan. Your legs in those ridiculous little boy shorts are much too pale.Love,MumDear Christopher Robin,I have lost the passage of time at the bottom of this trunk. I don't know where we are going, only that I am scared. Lions and tigers and bears, oh my. Oh dear. Tigger is not himself. He is snarling at me. Winnie is off his pot and it's not honey! I... I don't know how to tell you this... By the time you read this I am not be a let of a pig myself... They ate roo and rabbit. Kurtz is his name. He eats. He smells. He ripped the heads off of monkeys and oh dear, we are not in the 100 acre wood any more. I fear so much that I shall become like Eeyore, who took his own life. Kanga had not a pep talk to pull out of her pouch for him. Wise Old Owl only advises that we must make do with our new great leader. I have not forsaken you. I tremble, and I shake... Oh dear, oh dear. Why must the fate of our world depend on my little shoulders?Help!PigletDear mom and dad,I hope that you have given up on finding me. I was never the golden boy you wanted me to be. Only with my stuffed animal menagerie could I come off as wiser and smarter that I needed me to be. A lot has happened since last year. I ditched the canoes and the wedgies and bug juice for real bugs and canoes and wedgies (you haven't had a wedgie until the humidity lodges the whole elastic band up tight in your ass crack) in the jungle and sweet, sweet revenge. You would have been in awe if you could have heard my summation in the end, the sweet justification for my brutal actions. It is the law of the jungle. Silly old bear, I will kill Kurtz and take his fiancee for myself (No, mom I am not gay). His followers I had killed and stuffed. Now they worship me too.Love,your son.Winner: Winnie the Pooh