Yes, I read this a long time ago. No, I didn't remember anything.I came to the book thinking it was a mirror image of 1984, with the political violence and control. But Huxley is much more subtle, and ironic. The control evident in THIS Brave New World has been willingly given over...relationships, emotions, drive, ambition. Individualism...none of this matters, and no one cares.I had forgotten the tongue-in-cheek humor in the observations...until John Savage appears. Then the tone shifts and the book moves to its conclusion.This book was published in 1932 -- 15 years before his student, Orwell, published his dystopia. Huxley's predictions of technology and the intent of technology are uncanny.The visit to the Indian Pueblo in New Mexico makes me wonder if he traveled...that area of the country is a favorite for us, and his portrayal of the village and the area were fascinating.John, and his unconscious references to Shakespeare, added that outsider view of the culture, and reminds us how alien it really is. "Oh, brave new world, that has such people in it." Indeed. Indeed.John's philosophical discussion with Mond (world?) lets us know Mond also can throw out Shakespearan lines at will...he understands the ridiculousness of the world he supports...and he supports it anyway.The essays Huxley wrote in 1958, revisiting his novel were so interesting. He seemed very defensive that his book never reached the heights that his student, Orwell reached. His letter to Orwell after the younger man sent him a copy of 1984 seems touchy...He revisted in his essays the issues he felt were important in his novel...overpopulation, over-organization, propaganda, the arts of selling, brainwashing, chemical persuasion, hypnopaedia (sleep learning), and education for freedom. He explains that his book is a blueprint for 'a new kind of nonviolent totalitarianism.' He believed, and I see evidence, that humans will participate willingly in the stripping of their rights and responsibilities. That's the tragedy of Brave New World...people have lost their responsibilities, their individuality, their ability and willingness to do right, to make decisions.