Prophetic.Well, Aldous Huxley (1894-1963) tried to predict what would happen probably during our time now up to the 26th century or 632 A.F. (Anno Fordwith Year 0 being 1908 when Model T was introduced). He wrote this novel,Brave New Worldin 1931 and first published in 1932. Fifteen years after, in 1949 George Orwell did a similar thing when he published his social science fiction,1984. Both Huxley and Orwell were like Nostradamus but without the dreams or visions. Huxley came from the famous Huxley family with outstanding scientific, medical, artistic and literary talent. Orwell, on the other hand, was said to possess a keen intelligence and wit, a profound awareness of social injustice, an intense, revolutionary opposition to totalitarianism, a passion for clarity in language and a belief in democratic socialism.IMO, let's see what happened so far after almost 80 years. At least with some semblance:Huxley's prophesy:Babies are mass-produced in laboratories. Take note that Watson and Crick only discovered the DNA helix structure in 1953. So, this was a good guess by Huxley.Reality:Dolly, the cloned sheep (1996-2003).Huxley's prophesy:Soma, readily available all-around upper that make you feel betterReality:Ecstasy etc - although they are not readily available and expensiveHuxley's prophesy:OverpopulationReality:Correct! (But that should be easy)Huxley's prophesy:Free sexReality:Marry your wife, get sex free! :)Huxley's prophesy:No religion, no God, no concept of the family, no mama, no papaReality:'think that this has not changed so muchSeriously, this is a well-written dystopian novel and is now top of my list of favorite sci-fi novels relegating1984to second place. Reason: this came before that Orwell's book and this is written in a funny way that I think even children can appreciate.John the Savage,for example, seems like Tarzan the first time he sees the World State (aka The Brave New World) and also his eloquence and mastery of Shakespeare's verses is just so funny. Why Shakespeare? Because Huxley and The Bard were both British? Well, I should have added that. In a way, Huxley also indirectly prophesized that children of the 21st century would still study Shakespeare in school.Huxley and Shakespeare are both genius anyway. So let their books live forever.Thanks to my reading buddies:Bea, Angus and Tintinfor reading this book with me. Whoever thought of suggesting this book for us to read should have some potential to be a future genius too. Excellent choice for a book!