I'VE FINISHED THE BOOK: My initial impressions (and review comments) were overwhelmingly enthusiastic. I admit that the second half of the book did not quite live up to my hopes/expectations but I'd still give the book four stars overall (five stars for the beginning--see comments below). I felt that the second half of the story (once the children officially embark on their mission and become The Mysterious Benedict Society) was not as captivating, mainly because I found a great deal of the charm in the first half was found in the character descriptions/development and the little mysteries and puzzles the children had to solve. Once they embark on their mission, the characters they encounter become more one-dimensional and also the character development of the children is rather forgotten for awhile in the attempt to describe the great mystery/challenge they must face and thwart (and, also, I was not ultra-engrossed in that particular element of the story). Ultimately, the climax was still interesting and exciting and it had a very tidy and happy ending (much more a typical "children's book" in that respect than, say, Harry Potter) and I would recommend this to those wishing a pleasant and easy read (though a few of the puzzles in the beginning weren't that easy for me!) about a diverse and entertaining group of orphans who must save the world and find a way to feel loved and to belong in it if they do.UPDATE: ABOUT 2/3 DONE--CONTINUES CHARMING!!!! SO FAR, RECOMMENDED TO ANYONE MISSING STORIES ABOUT CHILDREN AT INTERESTING SCHOOLS NEEDING TO FIGURE OUT A MYSTERY AND "SAVE THE WORLD" (NOT THAT IT'S "HAPPY POTTER" BY ANY STRETCH OF THE IMAGINATION, BUT IF YOU MISS HARRY THIS CHRISTMAS, TRY THIS BOOK!) It is sooo captivating, I adore the characters (even if one is highly annoying!) and the mystery/suspense is excellent--tantalizing instead of irritating in its unfolding and (as of yet) relative vagueness. I can't believe that this book simply appeared randomly on Amazon as I was searching for something else--truth is, THIS is the type of book I've been looking for! So far, it is a good consolation for missing Harry Potter--it's not really similar, yet has its own style about students and orphans and children who must do amazing things.**Intelligent in content yet sweetly simple in style; the characters already seem quite real--this is an author who seems to remember/understand childhood. I'm excited to continue the imaginative journey...**