Celebrity Death Match Quarter FinalThe Complete Tales and Poems of Winnie-the-PoohversusMary PoppinsBANKS FAMILY EXPRESS SHOCK AT NEW REVELATIONS IN POPPINS CASELondon, Friday 14th October 2011The Banks family have expressed their 'deep disappointment' at new discoveries in the Poppins corruption scandal. 'We just can't understand it' a tearful Mrs Banks said to reporters yesterday. 'She always looked as if butter would not melt in her mouth. It's hard to believe that she was working against the country's best interests all this time.'The beginnings of Ms P.'s downfall go back to the year 2003, when feeding pigeons in Trafalgar Square became illegal under a City of London by-law. At the time it was well documented that Ms Poppins was donating large sums of money to the Save the Pigeons campaign, which of course is not a criminal act. However, when the Inland Revenue examined the campaign's financial records, they found anomalies in the amounts used for what were described as 'publicity services'. Millions of pounds were being siphoned into this particular fund which then was traced to bank accounts in Switzerland, and suspicion was raised that it had been used for money laundering, and to bribe members of the City of London Council. Five of their members are now under police investigation.Now further details reveal that Ms Poppins' fortune was amassed from a drug courier business. Her blameless exterior and independent means of travel provided the perfect front for a perfidious trade in cocaine, which was often carried in her well-known carpet bag in the guise of stomach powders. A recent case of poisoning has raised further suspicion that cocaine was not the only substance in her repertoire. These details were betrayed after Ms P. took up personally with Ms S., a former birdseed seller, and allowed her to enjoy all the privileges of a personal assistant without any formal employment arrangement. Ms S. had business cards printed claiming that she was a personal advisor to Ms Poppins, flew frequently on trips with Ms Poppins and even set up meetings with prospective clients. However it seems that when Ms S tried to muscle in on the drug business, she was quietly ousted, and then went to the police in retaliation.Police sources inform us that there is an ongoing investigation into Ms Poppins' connections to the underworld of illegal immigrants to the UK, often disguised as chimney sweeps and taught to speak with an unconvincing Cockney accent.It would appear that Ms Poppins sits at the centre of a web of corruption. Calls for her resignation as the nation's Super Nanny were already to be heard pending investigation of the bribery scandal, but the recent revelations about her drug dealing business make her position increasingly untenable. Ms Poppins was unavailable for comment yesterday, but her spokesman, Mr A. Werritty, is due to make a public statement later today.Note: no animals were harmed in the making of this review.