Solid four stars. This is book seven in my John Irving Challenge. Let it be known that I'm an idiot. Irving's books shouldn't be read this close together. He takes upwards of four years to write these fucking things, and reading them back-to-back only highlights the little repetitive details that an author will forget about in four-plus years. I do not suggest being an idiot like me. Take your time with this author's back catalog. I'd say, they would be best read a year apart from each other. Now we digress for a while. This is going to be a lengthy diatribe followed by a review that will upset some people. You've been warned.If you're only here for my thoughts on this book, skip ahead to paragraph four, the following paragraph being paragraph #1. Thanks.I love the Goodreads community. There are authors who stay away from what they call the "Shark Tank of the Reading Community," where dastardly, trollish reviewers circle, waiting for a badly-behaved author to cut themselves, inciting a feeding frenzy. There are authors who literally believe Goodreads members have nothing better to do than to sit around waiting for authors to show the first sign of weakness. Then there are authors who use this site for marketing and what people in the restaurant business call table-touching. They hone their craft based on input garnered from reviews, and come to be active members who are here to help you with whatever questions you'd having regarding their latest book, or to host a giveaway, or maybe sometimes they also read and rate books, but never do they review because they don't want to cause waves. Then you have authors like me. I will always be a reader first. A reader who has his own opinions, his own likes and dislikes, his own views of the world. I don't write reviews to sell books. I don't write reviews to gain fans. In fact, I feel that sometimes my honest opinions damage me in the public eye more than they'll ever help me (right, MommaCat?). But, again, I write these for myself, or to give warnings to readers who enjoy or dislike the sames things as I. You will only ever receive my genuine feelings about a book. I don't participate in circle-jerk review swapping, I don't carpet bomb rivals or request that my fans do so, and I don't put on a happy face when someone pisses in my review corner in order to save face and keep acquaintances happy. I'm not that kinda dude. Don't like my opinions on books but like the stuff I write? Fine. Don't read my reviews. Better yet, don't follow me. Pretend I don't exist here on Goodreads, or social media in general. Wouldn't bother me a bit. I'm not here for a popularity contest. I'm not on Goodreads for any reason other than discussing books with friends. If you don't like when I don't fangirl over your favorite books, that's none of my concern. If that twists your underwear in a knot and gives you a hemorrhoid, oh well. Because I'm not some dancing monkey here solely foryourentertainment. I'm a human being with his own thoughts and tastes, and guess what that means? It means that, sometimes, ladies and gentlemen of the internet, we aregoing to disagree. But, if you're only here to tell me how wrong I am about your favorite book, or that I should shut up and write books instead of reviewing them, I will kindly ask you right now to stay the fuck off my grass.I know I'm the enemy of some of you simply because I am an author. I get that, and I try to keep my distance from you. For the most part, you keep your distance from me, too, and I appreciate it ,and this site remains a pleasant place for both of us. Simply put, I know where I'm not wanted and I stay away, lest I welcome your hellfire. But, again, FOR THE MOST PART, this website fucking rocks, as do the users who populate it. It's full of my favorite type of person in all the world--Readers. Because I'm a reader myself, a lifelong lover of books, and all I want to do is discuss books and share my favorite books and rage over the ones that piss me off. If I shit on your favorite books, it's because I didn't like them, not because I think I'm better than anyone else. I get that I'm a scrub, fighting his way to the top, and that some authors have been more successful than me, and for good reason. You're watching me learn. You have front-row tickets to my literary education. But the simple fact of the matter is, sometimes, I'm not going to like what you consider to be amazing works of literature. And if you take my reviews personally, well, I just gotta say, the fucking world doesn't revolve around you. It doesn't revolve around me either. The difference between me and you is that I realize that opinions are subjective, and that your negative review of a book I like is not a personal attack on me, just like my negative review of a book you love is not a personal attack on you.But someone recently took it personally, which is why you're reading this stupid fucking diatribe. I was concerned that, by not givingA Prayer for Owen Meanya perfect score that I might summon down the wrath of some of you. Not all of you. Some of you. Maybe one or two of you. You know who you are. I shouldn't have to say this. It should be simple common sense that a stranger's opinion is not a slight on the temple of You. It's really that simple. I like a lot of you whose taste in books boggle my mind. I hate stuff like erotica or romance or YA, but loads of my friends on here love that shit. You don't see me in their comments section raging out over their tastes. So what if I don't like the books you read? Life goes on. And I think that's my point here. LIFE GOES ON. Stop taking everything so fucking personally. They are books, for fuck's sake. They're meant to be enjoyed. They're meant to be escapes. Stop getting so bent out of shape and go love whatever and whomever you want to love. Go on. No one's stopping you. Now, let's talk about THIS book...THE ACTUAL REVIEW STARTS HEREA Prayer for Owen Meanyis beautifully written. I could quote whole chapters to you, it's that good... in places. Pay close attention to those two words, though. "...in places."That being said, I still thinkThe World According to Garpis the better all-around experience. I know, I know, many of you will disagree with me. I know how many of you love this book. It was the single most requested book for me to read and review once I announced I was doing this John Irving Challenge (I'm attempting to read all of his books in a year and am currently on track to do so), and I feel some of you will be let down by my critique. But I'm not apologizing for how I feel. No one should have to apologize for liking or dislking or just feeling meh about a book. Ever.While the level of writing in this book far exceeds the level of writing in GARP, GARP was consistently good. This book tends to ramble about meaningless, literary stuffs, like the background of character who pass in and out of the story only once. And the constant America-hate got old. Irving's right. This country has long been fucked. But beating a dead horse does not become him, and that's what the majority of this book is; Irving beating a dead horse. A horse that died on page 256.I appreciate that Irving was trying to make Owen Meany's voice aggravating, but I found nearly everything about the kid annoying. He was too much of a know-it-all in my book, and because I am not religious in any way, shape, or form, I found a lot of his views sillier than a fucking clown orgy. People who talk to their god of choice or claim to hear His voice are no different to me than the wino outside the liquor store discussing quantum physics with the long-dead Carl Sagan. He's not talking to anyone but himself, and neither are you. You're both off your nut. Just my opinion. But crazy can be fun, and in places, Owen Meany is fun. But nowhere is he more fun than during the church performance and his part inA Christmas Carol. Which brings me to my number one complaint with this book.The novel peaks at the 200-page mark and is never as entertaining as it was in those first 200 pages. Once the boys grew up, I lost interest. I knew Owen's fate, I knew John's fate, I knew everyone's fate, whether from my own guessing (which turned out to be accurate, and I hate when that happens) or because the author spoiled his own book. No reason I needed to know Owen's fate at page 200. No reason whatsoever. Fuck you for telling it, Irving.My final word on the book is this:There is never a good reason for 100-page chapters. Screw any author who does it. I'm the type of reader who takes breaks only when a chapter has concluded. If your chapter is 100-pages long, I MUST read all 100 pages in one sitting. If not, I feel like I've done the book a disservice by stopping where it never intended for me to stop. I know I'm fucking weird. You're not telling me anything I don't already know. Thing is, I'm not a quick reader. I peak at 100 pages a day. Not moving all day seriously fucks with my mobility, so I was forced, numerous times, to put the book down and walk around when I didn't want to. But that's just my bitch. You likely won't notice, nor will you likely care if you do.In summation: If you read this entire review, it's very likely you are not happy with me. I know some of you will take offense where no offense is meant, but you'd do that anyway. Some people are professionally bothered. Nothing I can do about it. But if you feel guilty about something, or feel the need to defend someone, that's on you. I'm not pointing fingers. I'm making observations, and these observations are the way I see things. And what I found in this book is an author who has fallen in love with his own voice, and rightly so. The writing is sexy as fuck. But, at some point, you have to learn when to kill your darlings for the sake of the reader's enjoyment. And I feel too many darlings were spared in the writing of this book. And, in parts, too much was spoiled far too early. Take care of each other, and on to the next Irving!Final Judgment: Pretty but bloated.