This book was so engaging to me. I was yelling, laughing, frustrated, and engrossed in this book. It seemed like I was telling my sister my thoughts every 5 pages, and we discussed what the characters were doing, their motivations, and our desires and frustration as the story moved forward. The story left me wanting more in the best way.Pros:-Tie to book 1. I love that this book starts with a scene from book 1, told from Irial and Leslie's POV. It really helps to make this story feel connected to book 1, even though the main characters are different in each story.-"Love triangle" done in unique way. LikeWicked Lovely, Ink Exchange had a love triangle done in a compelling and unique way.(view spoiler)[ The shared history between Irial and Niall creates a compelling dynamic between the two of them. Even with a rough history, they still care for each other and don't want to betray the other. Despite both wanting to be with Leslie, she chooses her own happiness and removes herself from the triangle.(hide spoiler)]-Leslie puts herself first. From choosing to get the tattoo to reclaim her body, to choosing to(view spoiler)[ remove herself from the fey world and be with neither Irial or Niall(hide spoiler)]Leslie is all about self-empowerment and creating her own happiness. Even if she isn't sure of the best ways to engage in it.-Complex faeries. I think it is cool to see the parallels between the faeries we're told are bad (Irial, Gabriel) and who we're told are good (Keenan, Niall). They all have their own motivations that inform their actions and actively work towards their own self-interest. There really isn't good court vs bad court. They are all selfish and manipulative and deceitful, but have real moments showing compassion or care for others.Cons:-Ash being vague about the threat Leslie was facing. I understand she didn't want to take away Leslie's choice about knowing the fey world existed, but her inaction - when she knew Irial was showing interest in Leslie - was also making a choice for her. In trying to protect Leslie from the fey world, she couldn't protect her from the fey world. It was a complex situation and Ash handled it okay, but it could have been better.-Keenan continues to be manipulative, impulsive, and selfish while thinking he's superior to other's who do the exact same thing. I'm not upset that Keenan is volatile or rash or paranoid about becoming weakened again. Those are all characteristics that follow what we know about his character and Summer court fey in general. What is annoying is that it seems that he and others around him, see him as a better person than someone like Irial who shares those qualities. Don't get me wrong, both are bad people, but it seem that Keenan is given somewhat of a pass.-After Leslie's tattoo was completed, some parts of the story were hard to follow. I know that Leslie was in a haze, unsure of what was really going on, but It was a little too unclear in some points.Ink Exchange was a really fun reading experience for me that carried me through many emotional stages and kept me turning the page. The story's resolution is satisfying and leaves you wanting more of this world.