Lucy Snowe a plain -looking quiet 23-year- old intelligent woman in need of money and help, ( stating it mildly) she has no family left in England in an era before Victoria came to the throne, her godmother Mrs. Bretton who lived in a small town ironically named Bretton, has moved to colossal London with her handsome son John Graham, no way to find the widow there. Still Lucy is not without skill, she is a capable resourceful nevertheless almost destitute lady gathering all her few pitiful coins and decides boldly to cross the English Channel to seek fortune there, in a foreign land... mad or brilliant idea the future will tell. Arriving in the exciting, prosperous, glamorous capital city of Villette , (Brussels, Belgium) searching for lodging in a recommended inn, she stumbles among the thick dark ... the black gloom the unlighted ominous roads and shadows agitated, lost...some unknown men following...coming to a rather peculiar house...knocking ...the door finally opens... This is Madame Beck's school for girls, and the owner very shrewd an attractive widow in her late 30's wants an Englishwoman to take care of her three little precious daughters, luckily Lucy gets the job, but first the unpleasant dismissal of the current holder of the position an alcoholic lady, who drank one too many bottles. In a short time another great unexpected opportunity unfolds, the English teacher doesn't show up for work Madame Beck is not happy, this has occurred too often the owner of the prestigious establishment is strict, unforgiving and the lazy teacher will be the same soon (unhappy); dragging the petrified Lucy into the classroom full of young, intimidating girls and says teach...sink or swim...she floats. The new teacher slowly begins to feel comfortable, a natural instructor has ability, the students no longer are frightening. She begins to notice a professor M.Paul Emanuel, Madame Beck's extremely knowledgeable cousin, a ferocious man all around him ... they are scared of ( make that terrified ) little in stature, but big in power. Lucy becomes quite sick the school's regular doctor is away, a young English physician treats her at his home and seems familiar, so does the furniture...yes it's John Graham Bretton and his mother her godmother, the lonely woman has friends now. More acquaintances from her youth found in Villette, little, sweet, Polly Home the six- year- old who lived in Mrs.Bretton's house a short time and her rich father also, is now 17 a countess with new names, de Bassompierre inherited from aristocratic relatives on the continent...Love will complicate life as it will do forever, these people fall an arise seek new partners, the eternal bumpy journey in search of the unreachable happiness, contentment is it an illusion?..Yet the trek will go on and on... Charlotte Bronte's second best book, some heretics say her masterpiece but they are in the minority...