10/26/16 "Forget the modern debate over 'likeable' female characters - Lucy is prickly, repressed, untrustworthy, unattractive, judgmental, in constant denial of her own feelings, desperate for affection, violently anti-Catholic - in short an IMPOSSIBLE female character. There are even times when not only Lucy but Bronte herself hides significant information about the other characters from the readers, often casually mentioning having withheld it long after the fact. She is difficult to sympathize with, because she does not seek to be understood, not by us nor by anyone else. She seeks always to appear smaller, not because she enjoys being ignored, because she has found being human-sized altogether too painful to endure. She has no hope of power of pleasing, but this does not mean she has stopped wishing that she had it." -from Mallory Ortberg's introductionI had a difficult time reading Villette. The first few chapters and the protagonist, Lucy Snowe, never really captured and held my attention. I ended up finishing it by listening to the audiobook and reading along. But then the ending blindsided me, and the introduction, which I read afterwards, made me cry.I recall my great love for Jane Eyre happened after I reread it. And I feel my love for Villette can only grow. Lucy and Jane are very much alike, but Lucy is far more real than Jane. Lucy is solely concerned with survival and often succumbs to despair. She only rarely allows herself to daydream about the thing Jane craves: love. Lucy never asks for love; she has only known grief and does not want to go through another unnecessary bout caused by the loss of it. I very much see parts of myself in Lucy and feel very kindred to her, especially since my days far more closely resemble Lucy's than they will ever Jane's, with all their excitement and promises.Lucy's story doesn't reward you for listening to it, but there are rewards to be found in listening to Lucy Snowe.8/25/17 For the most part, this rereading experience was not very enjoyable. I think, on the whole, I will always find the first part of Villette a slog to overcome. There is a lot of the French language and many new, unlikable characters to meet and hear about, and many unsettling settings to discover. During the first part, too, we barely get a chance to understand Lucy, who she is, how she functions. She makes an effort to hide herself from the reader.During the rereading, I saw through a few things that Lucy intended to hide from the reader, and I looked on a couple male characters differently - oppositely - than I did when reading it for the first time. I enjoyed knowing I knew Lucy better than she perhaps wanted me to. Overall, however, Villette is not a happy book. Lucy is not a happy person and her life is not easy or full of pleasurable things. She's an outsider most of the time and is rarely, truly a part of someone else's life. This is a book about the pains of solitude, unrequited love and unfulfilled love. It is full of unwelcoming characters and places. It is a story that desperately tries to keep you at arm's length.But after all that, Lucy feels like a friend.One day this will get a true 5 stars from me - when I find enjoyment in the first part of the novel. Until then I will continue to reread Villette and never forget Lucy Snowe.