My third and final Charlotte Bronte from the 1001 list, althoughJane Eyre, which I read as a teenager is probably due for a re-read especially as although I enjoyed it I didn't really 'really' like it and I've been thinking that I should probably give it another chance as it were. I was reconsidering this after having readShirleynot so long ago, as I thought that novel pretty mediocre really, butVillettehas raised Charlotte in my estimation even though it might be as good as it is because it has been the culmination of a life of writing and has a great deal of personal emotion woven into the text.So, Villette. Rather unusual all things considered. Lucy Snow, an orphan without friends or relations, travels to France to seek some sort of post to enable her to earn enough to live on. Lucy is an unusual woman, there is a lot to admire in her, her desire to be independent and her quiet morality, but she is also cold and frequently harshly judgemental of those around her. I actually find a great resemblance between Lucy Snow and Fanny Price inMansfield Park(a comparison which Charlotte might find odious as she didn't much care for Jane Austen's books). Lucy carries a great deal of pain and unhappiness inside of her but as readers we are mostly led to guess at her history for ourselves based on inference as Lucy herself remains nearly universally private about her past. (And also her present. Lucy in fact very rarely offers any direct insights into her thoughts and feelings, she supresses and represses everything that she can.)The loneliness and air of depression which hangs like a cloud above the orphaned Lucy is one of the things which has me class this as a 'Gothic' book, although strictly speaking it's not. There are a lot of Gothic elements but they have mostly all been twisted around to rather mock at the standard tropes instead of enforcing them.Gothic features from the Wikipedia pages:Virginal Maiden- Technically this does apply to Lucy Snow and she certainly does have a great deal of the vulnerable about her but I think that the mantle of 'Virginal Maiden' falls more readily onto the shoulders of one of the two other main maidens -(view spoiler)[ Polly. After all she ends up with the 'Hero' and she is beautiful and far more perfectly suited than plain and introverted Lucy.(hide spoiler)]Older Foolish Woman- Madame Beck. Although actually very clever and business like she is rendered somewhat ridiculous by her machinations and secretive spying manner.Hero- Here we have the handsome and charming(view spoiler)[Dr. John. Devoted to his mother, kind natured and industrious, clearly the perfect hero. Except that in actual fact he's rather stupidly infatuated with an unworthy woman, often heartless and occasionally cruel in his self absorption. But he's good looking, so obviously he's the hero and he'll end up with the beautiful and virtuous maiden in accepted trope fashion.(hide spoiler)]Tyrant/Villain- This would be M. Paul Emanuel who frequently storms and rages at Lucy in grand tyrant mode and often gratuitously insults her for being a) A Woman, b) Too Educated, c) Too Uneducated, d) English and e) A Protestant. But underneath all of his crotchets and tempests he is a kindly and decent man who likes Lucy very much and wishes to be friends with her.Bandits and Ruffians- We don't see many of those but on Lucy's travels to France she runs into many characters who cheat her. She also has an encounter with two men on the streets of Villette who scare her so badly that she loses her way. She later encounters these 'two ruffians' and discovers that they are respected professors.Clergy- As a respectable protestant in ungodly and heretical catholic France Lucy is subject to conversion attempts which she finds foolish and tiresome. She forms a connection of sorts with a Jesuit priest who acts occasionally in underhanded way; unfortunately he doesn't descend into full on malicious villainy and there is no suggestion of Satanic Worship.Setting- Rather than an isolated monastery or castle, Lucy finds herself in a girls school. It certainly has walls but she is free to leave at any time. All Gothic Heroines must suffer isolation and imprisonment but inVillettethe true imprisoning lies inside her own head as Lucy battles the demons of depression and lack of self-worth.As well as all of these we can throw in a smattering of the supernatural with the legend of the ghostly nun who still walks the school. Obviously silly superstition - or is it...?A great read, I highly enjoyed it and even forgave the numerous ridiculous coincidences which were worthy of Dickens.