The genius of Charlotte Bronte is that she dissolves that thin line between reader and character. You dear reader feel everything as Lucy feels it. It is so painful to not know why M. Paul has offered no word of explanation for his absence. A brief note, saying 'Trust me' and then the fete night where Lucy's sensibilities are pushed beyond endurance and then the resolution.And the final page - well - we are supposed to have learnt as Lucy has learnt, about Trust and Faith and Love. If you believe in love then M. Paul will be returned safely.What more to say.Actually I decided there is quite a lot more to say - reading Villette, and then attempting to respond to the whole, required me to consider - what exactly is the nature of a review?I think the basic response - is that I want everyone else to read and enjoy the book as much as I did, and then to contact me and tell me all the pieces they loved, hated, wanted to change, couldn't improve upon, how it related to them etc. etc. etc.If my followers experience different emotions, a different rationale then no problem - the point is to read and appreciate her, and also I think because she's one of the Very Best. The experience of reading Villette will ultimately give you a more referenced and perceptive vision from which to read other novels - be it from the 19th, 20th or 21st century, and certainly you can go back in time to - when the Novel begins - mid 18th century? Tristram Shandy - by Laurence Sterne. Any suggestions folks?So to Villette - Bronte is an intellectual writer - and she writes in the style of her contemporaries which require that your abilities as writer be constantly reaffirmed. To this end, the text is full of references - to the Bible, Old and New, Greek philosophers, contemporary, and notable greats, English History - and surprisingly to Thomas Hardy'sTess of the D'Urbervillespublished in 1891. If you are not familiar with these noteworthy tomes and other writers - then yes it can be off putting - but we have the esteemed Tony Tanner, (a Fellow of King's College Cambridge, and Reader) who provides the End Notes and an Introduction. Can anyone explain the Tess reference, considering Hardy didn't create her until - 38 yearsafterVillette?Nevermind - the esteemed Tanner also translates the heavy use of conversational French - although I generally preferred my own, and only used his when I struggled with vocab. All of this can be a little intimidating - Do not be put off. Ms Bronte applied mid-19th century writerly style, mixed with her own and being a woman, she needed to establish her credentials not to mention maintain her assumed status as Currer Bell.If you're a Bible reader then you will love Bronte's references to the Holy Works - try this:Chapter 19: Note 8. (p.280)Nebuchadnezzar's hottest furnace: the miraculous deliverance of three Israelites from one of these furnaces, whither they had been despatched by King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon (for refusing to worship a golden image), converted the king forwith to Judaism. See Daniel, iii.The note refers to words spoken by M. Paul to Lucy - a comment on her integrity of character.Or try this:Chapter 25: Note 4. (p.370)too solid flesh:the phrase is from the first line of Hamlet's first soliloquy:O! that this too solid flesh would melt,Thaw and resolve itself into a dew;(I, ii 129-30)This is Paulina referring to her dear Papa - M. Home de Bassompierre as being immutable. He is an intractable character unwilling to change his mind - a good Scotsman in my opinion - one of the few characters - who quickly and easily sums up Lucy's position. Which is what he does when Paulina asks Lucy what she does - Lucy replies: 'I am a teacher,'...Our narrator provides a careful lead in, culminating in the Count's reply:He did not know much about Lucy Snowe: what he knew, he did not very accurately comprehend: indeed his misconceptions of my character often made me smile; but he saw my walk in life lay rather on the shady side of the hill; he gave me credit for doing my endeavour to keep the course honestly straight; he would have helped me if he could: having no opportunity of helping he still wished me well. When he did look at me, his eye was kind; when he did speak, his voice was benevolent.'Yours,' said he, 'is an arduous calling. I wish you strength and health to win in it - success.'His fair little daughter did not take the information quite so composedly: she fixed on me a pair of eyes wide with wonder - almost with dismay.'Are you a teacher?' cried she. Then having paused on the unpalatable idea,...'And why do you go on with it?'Her father looked at, and I feared, was going to check her; but he only said, 'Proceed Polly ... Well Miss Snowe, why do you go on with it?''Chiefly, I fear, for the sake of the money I get.'Actually in this tiny section - there is the whole plot - Lucy's struggle to establish herself as a person equal to those around her - and when I use the word equal - Bronte and I share terms - we mean equal in character, intellect, ability, morality.But I would also like to point out - how simple is her style when - it comes to the crunch. There are plenty of examples of what I would call highfalutin language - but we'll skip those.Let's focus on the plot. Here is the point at which she must return to the Rue Fossette to Madam Beck's Pensionnat and her work as a teacher. Dr John/Graham has promised to write to her and to maintain his family's relationship with her.'And will Graham really write?' I questioned, as I sank tired on the edge of the bed.Reason, coming stealthily up to me through the twilight of that long, dim chamber, whispered sedately, -'He may write once. So kind is his nature, it may stimulate him for once to make the effort.Lucy has allowed herself to hope that there will be a continued interest in herself and her circumstances from Dr John, and indeed his mother Mrs Bretton, who is in fact Lucy's Godmother, and her only semblance of family.The conversation between Lucy and Reason continues for several pages, she wants to write to Dr John, allow him to see the real her, but Reason answers:At your peril you cherish that idea, or suffer its influence to animate any writing of yours!''But if I feel, may Ineverexpress?''Never! declared Reason.At the end of this bitter argument - with herself, Lucy is found in the classe, huddled by the stove trying to imbibe some warmth into her frozen mind and body - and interesting it is M. Paul who finds her thus:'Mademoiselle, vous etes triste.''Monsieur, j'en ai bien le droit.''Vous etes malade de coeur et d'humeur,' he pursued. 'You are at once mourneful and mutinous. I see on your cheek two tears which I know are hot as two sparks, and salt as two crystals of the sea. While I speak you eye me strangely. Shall I tell you of what I am reminded while watching you?''Monsieur, I shall be called away to prayers shortly; my time for conversation is very scant and brief at this hour - excuse -''I excuse everything,' he interrrupted; 'my mood is so meek, neither rebuff nor, perhaps, insult could ruffle it. You remind me, then, of a young she wild creature, new caught, untamed, viewing with a mixture of fire and fear the first entrance of the breaker-in.'And he means 'breaker-in' to her heart not something else, automatically considered by modern readers.Our narrator often describes M. Paul as gnome like - but here the sense of his ability to discern exactly what she is feeling borders on the other-wordly - a true elf, gnome, magi - he is not privy to Lucy's past or recent excursion to La Terrasse the comfortable home of Graham and Mrs Bretton, and yet he reads Lucy absolutely.Which woman - out there has not yearned for a man -or mortal to address her so? To observe with the naked eye and yet see beyond what is on the surface? This is extraordinarily racy for present times - more so for 1853 - and yet M. Paul is no demon lover or celibate priest or any other incarnation he could be - but simply a man, aware of Lucy struggling to retain all her desires beneath a smooth facade. All the normal desires of a young woman, to have friendship, love, security, status, comforts - a pleasant life, with excitements as well as work and struggles.As M. Paul identifies after Lucy's performance in the school play "vous etes une petite ambitiouse". Yes - she is clever. She has desires and aims, but are these Needs any different from any woman young or old in any time period?Lucy's particular historical time setting means - she cannot advance in society through work or employment. In the early 19th century, her only way forward is to marry.This is the essential difference therefore, between then and now - her options are extremely narrow, but she battles on. Severely tried, she makes her way but will not use the wiles of certain ones - such as Ginevra Fanshaw. Nor does she have the fine breeding and background of Paulina - or her looks. Lucy's only advantages are what lie internally - her morals and intellect, her character - and it is on these that Charlotte Bronte builds her novel.Lucy chooses to believe, no matter how arduous the journey that - through her own strength and determination she will find a measure of happiness and success - and indeed she does.