freaking addicting read it 4 times.This is the story of a clone namedMatteo Alacran, or matt. Matt is a clone of the drug lordel patron. El Patron is very concerned about the wellbeing of matt. In this book matt grows from a skin cell to the age 16. During this time period he slowly learns whyel patronis so worried about matt's well being.el patronhas had clones before matt, he uses them for orgam transplants so he can live long.el patronis 140.This book takes place in the future. America and mexico are having problems with immagration and drugs. The drug lords went to the governments and told them this and recomended something that would solve these problems. The country ofOpium. it is a ten mile wide strip between Aztlan (prestent day mexico) and america. The country Opium captures the border hoppers and makes them into eejits, which are people with computer chips in there brains so they listen to orders. They have problems if the don't hear there leader say something like stop working and go back to the pens, they keep doing there last order. If they are asked to work they will work until somebody says stop, If they don't hear that order they will keep working until they actually hear it or die. it is that strait. they are great workers. Opium send people out to Aztlan as "guides" for people wanting to cross Opium into america, they just lead them strait to where they are made into eejits.The person that is the most influintal person in matts life is Celia. Celia is basicly his mother. She cares for him the same as a mother would. When El Patron has a heart attack and might need a transplant she gives him something that makes it unsafe for el patron to get the transeplant. She gave hime to much, he is not hurt but now she has to find something else to do the job. She hears about butterflies. (i know butterflies). Some butterflies eat milkweed so that that they can still live but if something eats them they are poisendl. she keeps him alive.his other influence is tam lin his personal body gaurd,Tam Lin. He teaches him how to be a man he shows him how to fish. Tam Lin had a history that got el patron to like him as a body gaurd. Tam Lin ran into a problem when he tried to blow up a political figure, a bus with twenty kids drove by. All of them died, without el patron he would be in jail. Matt finds out about this and it crushes him becuase Tam lin was his hero and all he heard was that he killed 20 kids. Tam lin felt extremly bad about this and ended up dieing.This is also a devolopling love story. What i mean is that matt is growing up and is slowly falling in love with maria. It is like any love stories it has ups and downs. When matt kidnapps her dog to get her to talk to him agian. Felicia kills the dog and it all falls upon matt.I thought that the author had a good idea, and pull through.I believe that it is possible for this story to pull through. Some of the science i think very possible, I don't believe that you could grow a human clone in a cow. Idothink if they do have clones they will not be availible to people other than rich people likeEl Patron. I also think that clone will be treated like matt is by rosa, as a monster or beast.I believe that there could not be eejits, because it is not scientificly possible.the ending is hardcoreFenwick