This is a book that was written over 20 years ago, but is set in the future. And, you can tell. I don't know why, but it just feels like it was written a while back.great prediction, Jetsons. It's called a "roomba" and doesn't wear an apron..But, I still liked all of the futuristic stuff in the story - it was fun! There was the "AutoChef" that made you food, a floating mattress - I'm thinking that would be soft and comfy, flying cars - I've been waiting forever for one of these!, tubes of Pepsi - I don't know why tube-form is better but I want one, and "people movers" like elevators that move horizontally -appealing to my lazy side. Just tons of fun gadgets.gimme, gimme, gimme!The story itself is about a female cop named Eve who is trying to find a serial killer. Most of the mystery is pretty good, even though I thought the bad-guy was obvious. I think it's all of the futuristic stuff that makes it more interesting. Eve was a pretty good character, but a little on the boring side. Which brings me to the romance.Why? Why would a gorgeous billionaire fall for Eve? It happens all of the time in books. We have a dowdy, boring female who is suddenly thought to be the most desirable female on Earth to a guy who would never look at someone like her twice. Is it that authors assume us bookworms must be dowdy and boring ourselves so we are all aflutter with the idea that we could get a man like that? Cuz, dowdy and boring doesn't describe me or any of my friends here. We are are exciting and hot-stuff that a billionaire model would be LUCKY to meet!But, our amazingly alpha hot guy falls so fast for Eve that it's mind-boggling. He finds her lack of a sense of humor charming and the fact that she only thinks about her job adorable.When she asks him for a favor by hacking into someone's bank account so that she can solve the crime, it rubs her rule-abiding self the wrong way:"A nonregistered system is in violation of Code four fifty-three-B, section thirty five.""I can't tell you how aroused it makes me when you quote codes, lieutenant.""It's not funny. And, what I'm going to ask you to do is illegal...""You could arrest both of us afterward.""This is serious, Roarke..."See? Isn't she delightful? He makes jokes and she keeps telling him it's not funny. As a person who makes jokes, married to the king of jokers, and with kids who are constantly joking, I can safely say that we justlovepeople with no sense of humor that tell us we aren't funny when we are messing around. Yeah, they're great...But, other than the fact that I found the romance hard to believe, I still enjoyed this book. I like a good stabby-murder book, and I like future stuff - like my friends who live in Australia, so it was a win.