Meet Lucas and Derek on the Bewitched BookwormsFirst of, isn't the cover super super pretty?? I love that cover and after reading the synopsis I knew I had to read this book and I was happy enough to get my hand on a ARC, woohoo!Loved this book! It's about Kylie trying to figure out who she really is, specially in terms of supernatural species. Kylie is stuck in between the divorce of her parents and this hits her really hard. After being caught at a Party where some kids where doing drugs, her shrink poposed to send her to a Camp for special kids. There she learns that there is a whole supernatural world out there, Vamps, Werewolves, Faeries, you name it - they all exists! And this Camp is a place where kids can learn about the other species and learn to live with their special abilities and gifts.The Problem is no one knows what Kylie is and she hates being there and being "not normal"... She can see Ghosts..We follow Kylie on her journey to accept herself and her supernatural gift and try to find out what she is. She's making new friends: a Vampire Girl and a Witch.And of course there are boys... Actually 3 of them. *gasps*Normally I hate triangles, specially since one boy will always loose and I feel bad for him. Plus I normally have a pretty good idea with whom she will end up. For some reason, it didn't bother me at all here. There is Trey , her Ex who is a normal human and was cheating on her but of course now realized that he wants her back.Then we have Derek, the Faerie that can sense emotions and is super gorgeous and absolutely lovely and the nice guy - I Like him ..a LOT!Last but not least there is Lucas... and he has it all in the hotness apartment, dark hair and bright blue eyes - dark and mysterious!Derek is the safe choice while Lucas the exciting one. The problem is Kylie is not ready to know what she really fells, too much is screwed up right now anyway. A dad that forgot her on parents day, a mom that is way too cold and then the journey about finding out who she is.Loved this book. Love the secondary girl friends she made, love the mystery behind Kylie, love the light romance between Kylie and those boys. And Oh boy, those kisses!!!! Me always loves good kisses and we get some pretty hot ones in Born at Midnight!The book ends with a decent cliffhanger, and ..I can't wait to find out more about KylieI can't wait to find out which boy will get the prizeI can't wait for the next book to see where this story goes!One thing I want to mention again about the cover: It's perfect! the Wood the Girl: Perfection.The next one:is perfection too after you've read Born at Midnight: The kids at the camp keep telling about this waterfall and that there is something mysterious about it. I can't wait to find out what and from the cover of the next book, it is apparently something important!