*Originally read 12/10/10 - 12/11/10*I've known about this series for quite a while, and I'm a bigNora Robertsfan, but I hadn't really wanted to pick this series up. There's about a billion books out in the series. What if I ended up loving it? Then I have to commit myself to buying those billion books just to catch up! But after hearing such glowing things about this series from most of my Goodreads friends--especially about Roarke--I had to finally bight the bullet and get the first book.Now that I've finished it I don't know whether to cheer or comfort my wallet. I think I'm going to have to run to the bookstore and swoop up a bunch of the next books in the series so I can get my glom on.I didn't connect with Roarke the way that most readers seem to, but I expect it comes with time. The relationship and attraction in this book develops pretty quickly--faster than I expected or wanted--but I can't say I expected any different seeing as this isn't actually a Romance series. Most of the focus was on the case with the romance as the side story. Luckily, I know there's plenty of time in this series for the author to develop their relationship.It's no hardship for me to watch their relationship develop over the course of the books since I know that theyaretogether and the author didn't throw any retarded love triangles in there. So I'm willing to be patient and won't complain about the lack of a lot of depth to the relationship and charactersyet.It was odd for me to read a book so similar, yet different, fromNora Roberts's usual style. The characterization, interactions, feel to the developing relationship, and writing felt the same, but the focus wasn't on the romance. I liked it. It's nice to find a new series by this author that I can glut myself on. I was a little nervous that her style would be completely different under the pseudonym, but it wasn't where it counted.The details about all the little futuristic gizmos weren't really explained in depth. Everything was mentioned matter-of-factly like talking to someone already familiar with the technology and world. I think some will dislike that, but I honestly preferred it. I don't mind if authors want to explain, but a detailed explanation about how the spray that seals in oils and fingerprints works is not something I personally need to know. The way it was all presented worked for me.The case (and Eve's background) really tugged at my heartstrings. I thought it was handled well by the author, but I still feel helplessly enraged to know stuff like that happens constantly.I really enjoyed seeing our timeframe discussed and researched for the case. It was fun to see the differences between that time and this one and it provided a nice opportunity for me to see where their culture differed without huge infodumps.Now to go get my hands onGlory in Death...