" I am doomed to remember a boy with a wrecked voice-not because of his voice,or because he was the smallest person I ever knew,or even because he was the instrument of my mother's death,but because he is the reason I believe in God; I am a Christian because of Owen Meany."That is the opening lines of the novel,and aptly describes what the book is about. This novel goes from there,and takes you on a wild ride of quirky characters,and circumstances that will make you laugh your ass off. This book is one I would whole heartily insist you read. Even if you've read Irving before,and missed this one. I bought this book in the early 90's,and after reading some of Irving's other novels, I just now got to this one. You know that book you've had on your shelf, like forever,and you just never got around to it, for some unknown reason? Yes, that's the one. I wish I had picked this up long ago, but then again maybe Owen himself , being the instrument of God, decided now was the only "ripe" time that I should open it's pages,and devour this fantastical novel for the very first time. I can see myself waiting several years,and reading this one again.....like I've done with Cider House Rules,and The World According to Garp.What makes this book of Irving's different in my estimation is......it's denseness, it's goofiness,and it's wild humor. I thought this one had the most chaotic,and all around most complicated plot,and of all the times I have laughed at Irving's stories, I think I found myself laughing at this one the most. The characters are whacked in sooooooo many many cases,and yet they are endearing,and believable, totally charming,and you can almost understand why they act the way they do. As the first lines tell you, it all seems predestined from the start all the things that happen to these characters,and to Owen in this novel.Irving spends a lot of time setting it up....unfolding the details,and the points of the plot, where you furiously read page after page because you just gotta know now what's happening. I have read that Irving is a big fan of Dickens. To me, this is like reading a Dickens novel....many of Dickens characters are truly strange, yet wonderful. The same formula here.This is another Irving novel that I won't soon forget,and I do hope that someday I'll take the ride again,and reread this one. I am not a big fan of rereading....but Irving motivates me to do so. This book is no exception.I know I've read on here that some people didn't like this one....and others loved it. I find that to be true of most of Irving's works. If you are a fan at all, read this one, if you haven't. If you've never experienced Irving.....you don't know what you're missing in this one.I sure wish I could meet John someday!