3.5/5September 16, 2015I'm going to have to write a review tomorrow. I'm really tired.September 17, 2015Okay. Now I'm ready to write this review.I had been seeing this book around in Barnes and Noble as well as some people's shelfs. I had read a little about it and I was determined to read the series. I have to say though, that I was a little disappointed.The CoverSo I know that we shouldn't judge a book by its cover but, come on. We all do it even if we don't mean to. This cover is really cool. She's standing on a tree that seems to be split down the middle. I thought that this could be figurative for choices as if you're in a fork in the road. There is fog with white light so you can't see past it which is kind of mysterious. Overall, that is a pretty nice cover.The PlotKylie Galen has had a pretty rough life. Her grandmother died, boyfriend Trey dumped her, her parents are getting a divorce and she is getting sent to some camp by her mother. Kylie doesn't want to go to Shadow Falls with the other "bad kids" that seem to be there who she later learns to be supernaturals.Being there will vampires, werewolves and many other supernatural creatures, she doesn't feel more out of place but for some reason everything she should be. She tries to leave but then is conflicted whether she wants to for a couple of reasons. Her parents are divorced and she isn't getting along that well with them as well as the fact that she would leave people at the camp. Of course there are two guys that can't help but have feelings for as well as her two new best friends.Throughout the book, Kylie is on the search for her true identity as well trying to keep control with it.What I likedThe action. There was some action where I was getting a little impatient trying to get to and ended up skimming parts that I had to go back and read.The plot lines. There were many plot lines going on during the whole book that were at times hard to keep track of but most of the time is was okay.The depth of imagination. Ms. Hunter was able to create some things that I wasn't expecting and I enjoyed. The history and interactions of the campers were pretty interesting at times.What I didn't like or could have been betterThe characters.I did have a slight problem with Kylie. She was whiny and daresay, self centered. When there was a problem she got annoyed that she couldn't complain or whine about it to anyone. When that someone overcame their problem, she was like "good I don't need to worry about that. I have my own bigger problems." That is what I got out of it at least.Overall, the other characters weren't that well developed. They each had one problem that lasted throughout the book. I was a little upset about that because I thought that they could have had some interesting pasts because they are, you know, supernatural and had cool abilities.Besides that, at times I got a little bored. I know that I above said that there was action but that was only some of the time. Other times I was actually skimming and wasn't going to reread it. I guess that there was too much description or it was for another reason that I don't remember right now.The love segment. It wasn't a triangle but Kylie did alternate about who she liked. Derek, Lucas, Derek, Lucas, etc. That was a little annoying and I just thought that she didn't need to have someone that she liked all the time. If she did, she should choose. I did have a personal favorite but I'm not going to say who it was. I think you all have one if you read this book.OverallI was slightly disappointed with this book and I might want to read the next one because I hate leaving series unfinished unless 1) I either know that they aren't good or 2) I really didn't like the first book. Hopefully the characters will get a little better and the boring parts less sparse.So that's it. I think that I said everything I had to say.