WOW. Oh wow!! I am speechless! Born at Midnight was absolutely thrilling!! If I could have read it in one day, I totally would have! I didn not want to put that book down since I picked it up and started reading it. Unfortunately, my life is hectic and would not allow me to read it that quickly. I loved, loved, loved this book!! The plot, the suspense, the romance, the characters-all of it! Nothing but good raves about this book. On to the review now......So Kylie Galen, a 16 year old ordinary girl gets caught at a party with drugs and alcohol. The cops break it up and she get's sent to a camp for "troubled teens". Or so she thinks that's what it is. But in reality, it's a camp for all supernaturals. Confused as to why she was sent to that scary uninviting place with witches, vampires, fairies, werewolves, and shapeshifters, she tries to find out some answers. Though since she was little she always had night terrors and saw ghosts. Or at least one in particular. Overtime, she dscovers she's not so normal after all. Eventually, she makes friends with her cabin mates Della, a vampire and Miranda a witch once she accepts them for who they are. Or shall I say, what they are. Their friendship grows and becomes something so beautiful. Miranda and Della would do anything for Kylie if she needed anything. As if things can't get more complicated on top of her parents also getting divorced and her boyfriend breaking up with her because she wont have sex with him. She falls hard for Lucas, a hot and mysteriously sexy werewolf and Derek, a sweet, caring, gorgeous green eyed half fae who makes your heart skip a beat. Finally fitting in for once in her life, eventhough she doesn't know exactly what she is yet because no one can really read her brain patterns. She finally enjoys her time at Shadow Falls Camp. So many discoveries unravel and she learns some shocking news about her parents, Lucas leaves the camp with a she-wolf, her feelings for Derek increase, her ghost finally talks to her asking for help in something important and it's enough to keep her from falling apart....Well, I will stop there. I could go on and on about this book. But I feel everyone should read it. It is simply amazing! It has a great plot, plenty of action and edge of your seat events that keep you turning the page and the romance is oh-so-amazing! I can't chose between Derek and Lucas. They are both so damn sexy and I would love to have both for myself. Poor Kylie has to decide who she cares about more. Though the fact that Derek can manipulate her feelings is a slight turn off. But the way he cares for Kylie is magical and he is so patient with her. *sigh* He makes my heart skip a beat. But so does Lucas. In all honesty, I think either one would be just great for her. This new series is one I am so excited about. I have started the sequel and just love it. Five stars doesn't do justice for this book!