I found this book at the library, like I usually do with most of the books (I'm a sucker for borrowing books from the library). When I borrowed it, it was because of the plot. It had that teenager vibe, the kind of books I was reading when I started highschool. And I was in a point in my life when I missed reading this kind of vampire/werewolves/fairy/ghosts-whatever books. So I started reading the book.It is about the main character and the most important one, Kylie Galen. Her parents are going through divorce and they don't get along each other too well. Kylie has a special connection with her father, but he shocks her when he leaves without taking her with him. Kylie has an "issue": she feels the cold presence of dead people. She sees "the Soldier" and when she tries to tell that to her mother, she only says that Kylie is mad. So after one night when she went to a party with Sarah, her best friend, and she was gelous of her ex-(hot)boyfriend, Trey, staying with another girl, the police came and found drugs on them. But Kylie wasn't guilty. Not that her mother trusts her. So she sends her to "Shadow Falls" from the town "Fallen", a camp with "teenagers with problems".But when she is in the bus heading to the camp and even when she gets there, she sees and finds out about vampires, werewolves, fairies (fee), wizards and metamorphs. There are two administrators of the camp: Sky and Holiday. They take care of different groups, Holiday being in charge of Kylie too. The problem is...she doesn't know what Kylie is exactly. She tells her the possibilities, but that's all. At first, Kylie doesn't stand the idea that she is a supernatural. But almost after the half of the book she starts accepting the idea.I personally really liked this book. The problem is this: we still don't find out what she is. But I recommend this series to people who are very patient, because it's gonna take a while.I liked the characters, but sometimes they had stupid arguments or were saying stuff that didn't make any sense. But I still loved this book. I really liked the idea that at the beginning she was so distant with her parents, but at the end she became so close to her mother and I really loved that part. I liked both Lucas (the werewolf) and Derek (the fee), who tried to have Kylie for them. Weird is that at the beginning I shiped Kylie and Derek (the brunette mysterious guy) more than I even liked Lucas. And towards the end the course changed: I started liking Lucas very much. And Derek seem just another hot "6-pack" guy and became really annoying at some point.Also, I really liked that Kylie discovered at last who the Soldier was. And I was sure about that! It was a little predictible, but I still enjoyed it very much!What bothers me are 2 and half things:0). That half is what I said earlier, that we didn't find out what supernatural creature is she.1). Another whole problem is that at the end when Lucas left the camp (minor spoiler, trust me) sent Kylie a paper note, she didn't even read it yet, because she has been through a lot and it was a party (I won't say what is the reason of the party), and she wanted to relax, and then the first book finished... And I don't know what is on that piece of paper.And 2). Another frustrating thing was that she heard about the waterfall where at night you can see some dead fallen angels or something, and I was waiting since before I got through half of the book for her just to f**king go there, but guess what: she didn't! I think this was the most annoying thing for me.The book is practically moving slow, but it still had that mysterious and darkish vibe that I love about books, so 4 stars for this one!