Wow, this was such a weird reading experience! I knew from the beginning that this was going to be a great story, and I kind of devoured its 700 pages, but at the same time, I kept wondering why that was? This book deals with themes and a time period that I'm not very familiar with. Themes such as the Vietnam War, USA in the 1950s and 1960s and Catholicism. The time period was very vague to me, and I'm sure that an older reader would benefit more than me from reading this story.Yet, I loved it! John Irving has a unique writing style, and whatever he writes about I seem to devour. John Irving tells this story as a coming-of-age narrative, and I think that's what impressed me the most. It's a story told from the perspective of Johnny Wheelwright, but actually it's a story about Owen Meany. We get to follow the two boys from their childhood and onwards, and this is when John Irving's unique writing style sets in. Irving's books are heavy on this descriptions, and this one is no exception. He spends long passages on information that you have no chance of understanding if you're not familiar with the 1950s - or biblical passages; yet, you are intrigued to read on, and you don't really care about the missed references, because he writes so damn well!I can assure you that this book is not going to be for everyone. I rated it 5 stars, but I'm sure a lot of people will have the exact opposite opinion from me. That's because of Irving's writing style and way of telling a story which might not appeal to everyone. Not everyone might like the long, 100-page-chapters nor the nerdy passages on for instance tv shows and movie stars in the 1960s. But this is a perfect example of a book that's not perfect (I did find some of these passages slightly boring myself), but it still managed to impact me so heavily that I couldn't NOT rate it 5 stars. I think the thing that convinced me in the end was the way everything wraps up beautifully as well as the magnificent humour that we get throughout the story. I LOVED IT - the question is, will you? :)