The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacksis fascinating and heartbreaking in equal measure.In 1951, Henrietta Lacks was diagnosed with terminal cancer.Before she died, a surgeon took samples of her tumor and put them in a petri dish. Scientists had been trying to keep human cells alive in cultures for decades, but they all eventually died. Henrietta's were different: they reproduced an entire generation every twenty-four hours, and they never stopped. They became the first immortal human cells ever grown in a laboratory.Those cells, known as HeLa, are still alive today and have advanced medicine and science in countless ways; it seems there's no end to the list of discoveries made because of HeLa.I've tried to imagine how [Henrietta would] feel knowing that her cells went up in the first space missions to see what would happen to human cells in zero gravity, or that they helped with some of the most important advances in medicine: the polio vaccine, chemotherapy, cloning, gene mapping, in vitro fertilization.Henrietta's cells helped launch the fledgling field of virology.As the Cold War escalated, some scientists exposed Henrietta's cells to massive doses of radiation to study how nuclear bombs destroyed cells and find ways to reverse that damage. Others put them in special centrifuges that spun so fast the pressure inside was more than 100,000 times that of gravity, to see what happened to human cells under the extreme conditions of deep-sea diving or spaceflight.The author took great care to learn about Henrietta Lacks. She paints Henrietta as a woman who accepted her illness and faced her treatment with unparalleled resilience and strength.One afternoon, as Henrietta lay on the couch, she lifted her shirt to show Margaret and Sadie what the treatments had done to her. Sadie gasped: The skin from Henrietta's breasts to her pelvis was charred a deep black from the radiation. The rest of her body was its normal shade -- more the color of fawn than coal."Hennie," she whispered, "they burn you black as tar."Henrietta just nodded and said, "Lord, it just feels like that blackness be spreadin all inside me."Cancer is a foul creature, sinister and terrifying, but Henrietta's cancer was a force of evil from the nadir of Hell. It ravaged her body in unmerciful ways; it's no wonder those cells survived in a test tube where all other cells died.Suddenly [Henrietta's] body went rigid as a board. She screamed as the nurse ran to the bed, tightening the straps around Henrietta's arms and legs to keep her from thrashing onto the floor as she'd done many times before. Gladys thrust the pillow from her lap into Henrietta's mouth, to keep her from biting her tongue as she convulsed in pain.The book is extensive; all of the information is efficiently organized and comprehensive.Part of what makes this book so tantalizing are all of the near-misses, all of the moments when the author was turned down in her quest to learn the truth about Henrietta Lacks. Had she given up, as so many others did, Henrietta Lacks might have been forgotten and this riveting book would have never existed.