A while back I'd slogged through the simultaneously compelling and and head-scratchingly-moribund epic "Acts of Faith" by Philip Caputo which dealt with the Sudanese Civil War (of the mid-1980s through today) and ensuing humanitarian efforts; while I wasn't terribly impressed by that novel, it did leave me with many questions about the situation in Sudan, many of which were addressed (if not exactly answered) by the far-superior "novel" "What Is the What" by Dave Eggers.I put quotes aroundnovelprimarily because it's not a novel in the classical sense of the term; it's more a first-person account from the very real Valentino Achak Deng as written by Eggers (whose soleraison d'etrethese days is to give a voice to the disenfranchised). And, oh my goodness, what an account. If there was ever a story that makes a reader pause to assess his problems as meaningless piffles, this is the one. Mr. Deng takes us down a 2-decade-long rabbit hole of sheer horror, from fleeing for his life as his village is shelled first by helicopters, then by Arab murahaleen horseback raiders; running for miles and miles with hundreds of other displaced "Lost Boys" looking for rumored humanitarian aid encampments across the borders of Ethiopia and Kenya, only to be decimated by famine, thirst, hunger, wild animals, random attacks and massacres; then focusing on survival in the camps while being recruited to go off to a totally unwinnable war against the ruling regime in the capital city of Khartoum. It would seem like it would be the bleakest reading experience imaginable slogging through the travails of Mr. Deng's life, but there is an amazing undercurrent of optimism that buoys the non-stop negativity, and makes it more a fascinating portrait of a fascinating life than the total bummer it could've been. It helps that the recollection is broken up by present-day musings by Mr. Deng after he is selected to come to the United States and tries to cope with a completely different set of ordeals (in adjusting to living in Atlanta, GA). Even the most jaded, surly curmudgeon would be hard-pressed not to be moved by this guy's plight.One could argue that Eggers pseudo-autobiography is shamelessly manipulative. If I think about it for too long I might possibly agree with that statement, but for now I think I'd rather give this book 5 stars and let you decide for yourself whether Eggers' story is one worth reading. While it doesn't answer many questions, it does bring to light the very serious and dire situation in Sudan (that evidently goes on to this day) and if that requires some heart-string pulling, so be it.HIGHLYrecommended.