Comrade Nicholas Salmanovitch Rubashov is one of the founding Party of the Revolution. He is also perhaps the only man of that group of idealising thinkers still alive. For a long time he has had a recurring dream of being arrested in his bed, while sleeping under the poster of No. 1 (Stalin), the same poster that hangs above every bed, on every wall. And finally, he is arrested. As a politicial prisoner he is given solitude and time to sweat. There is a certain degree of fatalism in the way he paces his cell and thinks. He knows, of course, exactly what is going on and what will happen. The only thing to decide is how he will die: with a bullet in the back of the head after a confession and a public trial, or a bullet in the back of the head after professing his innocence.It's not a lot of choice, but Rubashov is a stubborn old man who still likes to argue Policy and doctrine with his interrogators. And there is the meat of this story, revealing and exploring the aims and processes behind the intractable wheel of the Party and its Revolution, now holding on from sheer force of will while those like Rubashov who still naively hoped it could be something else, something better, are sacrificed for the greater good.I feel I have failed this book. I read at least six other books while making my way through this one. On the one hand, it helped to break it up into smaller, more manageable slices. On the other hand, it makes my impressions rather clouded. There is a lot I don't understand. It requires a close, earnest reading, preferably under the guidance of a knowledgable uni Professor. I could read this book a hundred times and learn something new each time, while other things remain obscure. But that, in a way, is the nature of the Party itself as it is described here. Itdoesn'tmake sense, it never did and isn't supposed to. That Rubashov is a scapegoat, and a symbol, is quite clear. That there is nothing he can do to escape it is also frustratingly clear. That the whole thing, the whole Revolution, has turned into a debacle, an absurd exercise in freedom for the masses achieved through repression of those same masses, an excercise which cannot be stopped or altered lest everything that has been achieved becomes undone, is also blatantly obvious. Koestler may get to his points in a roundabout, abstract philosophising way, but he hasn't left the most important ones to a reader's imagination.The part I loved - if I can even use that word; maybe "appreciated'? - the most was in the Third Hearing, the conversations between Rubashov and his interrogator Gletkin. Here we get two sides to the argument, neither of them particularly strong but both given with absolute conviction. I don't like books where the enemy is a faceless presence, as No. 1 is, yet this works perfectly here - for the Party is a machine, an unfeeling, uncaring thing with only one purpose. But by showing Gletkin's thoughts - and his method of rationalising - we can gain an understanding of why so many people bought into the doctrine, even while loved ones disappeared, while people feared for their lives, while the Party betrayed them while saying it had been betrayed. Rubashov believes in telling the people the truth, and gaining their voluntary involvement and loyalty. Gletkin says, among other equally potent speeches:Whether Jesus spoke the truth or not, when he asserted he was the son of God and of a virgin, is of no interest to any sensible person. It is said to be symbolical, but the peasants take it literally. We have the same right to invent symbols which the peasants take literally. (p232)One of my favourite lines is from a man Rubashov is accused of traitorous deals with, who says "One can only be crucified in the name of one's own faith." I think I will spend many years wrestling the different meanings out of that!This translation is quite old, and a bit stuffy. Unfortunately, the original German manuscript is lost and there don't seem to be any copies of it from which to do a new English translation. Apparently, the English translation is used in translating it intootherlanguages. But I would ask, or rather plead, that they do a bit of editing. The typos were numerous and distracting. The comma use was also irritating, but that's more attributable to the period. Commas aren't so in fashion anymore.Anyone interested in philosophy, socialism, 20th century history, Stalinism etc. would get a lot out of this book. Even someone like me, with just a sketchy knowledge of the period and events that form the ground of this fictional account, can still come away with the brain ticking over. It's the kind of book we are generally reluctant to read, because it requires too much work, but it is worth it. Even if, like me, you don't feel you can do it justice.