There are only two conceptions of human ethics, and they are at opposite poles. One of them is Christian and humane, declares the individual to be sacrosanct...the other starts from the basic principle that a collective aim justifies all means, and not only allows, but demands that the individual should in every way be subordinated and sacrificed to the community.Koestler believes in socialism; his question is, if achieving socialism means torturing and murdering a few people, do we throw out the people or socialism? The answer is easy if you ask the people, and here's a book from the people.It seems like an easy question regardless to me: any system which forces us to ask it is necessarily corrupt. Koestler seems to believe that too: "One cannot build Paradise with concrete," his protagonist says: "No. 1's [Stalin's] regime had besmirched the ideal of the Social state even as some Mediaeval Popes had besmirched the ideal of a Christian Empire."But as we know, the debate is still alive and thriving today: I followed this book withGuantanamo Diary,which is about exactly the same thing. Once again, a person is tortured for the sake of a system; there are Americans with waterboards who believe that the ends justify the means. Am I comparing post-9/11 America to Stalinist Russia? Yes. How could we not?The book itself is terrific stuff. Exciting to read and very smart. Midway through, prisoners learn from their coded tapping communication system that someone is shortly to be executed, and they create a drumroll by banging on their doors with their fists as he's dragged down the hall, their only way to acknowledge him. I don't want to get too flowery here, but I don't think I've ever read a scene more powerful.But speaking of drumrolls, can we talk about the ending?(view spoiler)[It has this perfect, perfect ending: "Rubahov broke off his pacing and listened. The sound of muffled drumming came down the corridor." I got chills all over again, re-reading it just now. But then: it turns out that's not the end at all; there's a whole nother chapter that totally doesn't need to be there. Bummer! Do you like that last chapter? I think he shoulda quit with the drumming.(hide spoiler)]This is an overwhelming asskicking of a book, one of my favorite reads in recent memory. The answer is that the ends do not justify the means, and if you have to ask the question, you are no longer the good guy.