The book that committed me to continuing the series.Zee, Mercy's mechanic mentor, needs the help of her nose investigating a recent death on the fae reservation. Briggs gets to pull out all the stops and introduce the readers to a number of fae and their magical artifacts. Investigating the crime scenes proves fascinating, and also points out a person of interest. Next thing Mercy knows is that Zee is being held in the human jail as the primary suspect in the POI's murder. In the interests of keeping fae business from human scrutiny, the fae intend to let Zee take the blame. Mercy, of course, can't bear to have her innocent friend blamed, so she continues to investigate the murders, bringing her to the attention of a number of powerful fae. At the same time, Mercy attempts to balance her love life between Samuel, roommate and childhood love, and Adam, her current crush.When it comes to plotting, there was a much better balance of interesting things happening without reliance on dramatic, life-threatening events. There's the investigation, the music festival, a night out for pizza, and a meeting for a change of pace. At first, it wasn't clear where the murder investigation would go, but eventually it narrowed down to an obvious suspect. While choosing between potential love interests is often a plot device that has me eye-rolling, I thought Mercy's dilemma was handled nicely with gentle self-revelations rather than dramatic angst. The ending was truly gut-wrenching. Any frustration I would have leveled at Briggs was mitigated by Ben's perceptive and emotional explanation. Mercy is allowed her trauma but also to regain some of her self-confidence in a capstone fight.Mostly, however, I just loved the introduction of various fae. Briggs did a nice job with the eerie threatening power of the fae, capturing the capriciousness and ruthlessness of folklore fae. Kudos for the Walking Stick, one of my favorite non-sentient (?) characters ever.Still, for a female-led urban fantasy, there's an awful lot of males around, with most of them engaged in rating each other on the dominance scale. It's the kind of thing that will end up putting me off a series.Re-read May 2016