"Honour was to serve without vanity, without sparing oneself, and until the last consequence." (Koestler, p. 189)This book is less a "novel" than a personal meditation on the nature oftotalitarianism and the role--if any--of individuals in it. Arthur Koestler (1905-1983)was a disenchanted Marxist-Leninist who was jailed and tortured in Spain and France before World War II and subsequently lived out his life in England. The book was published in 1941, just before the United States and Soviet Union became allies against Hitler's Germany, and denounced as reactionary "agitprop" by European and American intellectuals.Dalton Trumbo, the great screenwriter ("Spartacus," "Exodus," and my personal favorite, "Gun Crazy") andHollywood 10defendant, boasted that he prevented the production of a motion picture based upon the book after the war. Ironically, Mr. Trumbo was also the inspiration for the "Trumbo Free Speech Fountain" at the University of Colorado.As I have noted elsewhere (my notes on "Every Man Dies Alone"), totalitarian regimes--whether communist, fascist, racist apartheid or evangelical--seek to destroy the old society and build upon its ashes a new, more perfect one. This great task requires the active cooperation of every person, with "parasites and counter-revolutionaries" fit only for slave labor camps or "liquidation." The demands of reshaping history require that all competing interests and values must be subordinated to the great adventure, especially and specifically individual interests. "Truth," one character in the book notes, "is what is useful to humanity, falsehood what is harmful." That is to say,the ends justify the meansand collective goals take precedence over personal ones.The leading character in the story, Nicholas Salmanovitch Rubashov, is a true believer and leading revolutionary who is incapable of using the first-personal singular noun, "I" (i.e.,grammatical fiction). He is also a cynical, murderous hypocrite who develops a sense of personal responsibility for his crimes only when his own neck is on the chopping block. Rubashov is not a "protagonist" in the usual sense of the word and "Darkness at Noon" is not a typical "American Story." There really are no heroes or good guys here, which may explain the dislike of the book among Goodreads' reviewers. Rubashov himself has denounced friends, men he admired, and even his own lover, sending them to the gallows without the slightest sense of guilt or personal responsibility. Once the tables are turned, however, and Rubachov faces his own "show trial," he gets a taste of his own medicine. Facing his accuser, he admits that his previous betrayals were cynical acts intended to "save his own neck."Rubachov's hypocrisy and cynicism are not lost on his old friend, now inquisitor, Ivanov, who points out:Has anything more wonderful ever happened in history? We are tearing the old skin off mankind and giving it a new one. That is not an occupation for people with weak nerves; but there was once a time when it filled you with enthusiasm. What has so changed you that you are now as pernickety as an old maid? (p. 163)Why, indeed, does Rubachov develop a conscience? To save his own neck (again). He is finally the victim of his own invention, the Revolutionary Party, and when the time comes to face the executioner, he has no one but himself to blame. As with the fate of Captain J. J. Glanton in Cormac McCarthy's "Blood Meridian," I was emotionally satisfied with Rubachov's comeuppance.Rubachov's musings necessarily lead the character (and reader) to contemplate the conflict between "reactionary romanticism" and "the Enlightenment." On the one hand, the Soviet state, like the Fascist state, is an extreme version of what Americans recognize as Progressivism. That is, the problems of modern society are simply too complex to be understood much less decided by ordinary citizens. Experts or technicians must decide and implement policies on such matters, insulated as far as is possible from the corruption and ignorance of the "people." Rubachov argues:History has taught us that often lies serve her better than the truth; for man is sluggish and has to be led through the desert for the forty years before each step in his development. And he has to be driven through the desert with threats and imaginary consolations, so that he should not sit down prematurely to rest and divert himself by worshiping golden calves. (p. 99)Lenin called this "democratic centralism" within the "vanguard party;" Rubachov calls it his "law of relative maturity." I call it technocraticProgressivism(See Richard Hofstadter,The Age of Reform).On the other hand, Rubachov mulls the benefits of reactionary romanticism, thinkingPerhaps it did not suit man to be completely freed from old bonds, from the steadying brakes of "Thou shalt not" and "Thou mayst not," and to be allowed to tear along straight towards the goal. (pp. 263-4)Herein lies one of the enduring battles of our civilization. Is human reason reliable enough to construct a more perfect world, as the Enlightenment philosophers believed? Or do the shortcomings of human reason require that time-bound traditions and institutions be preserved in order to prevent a collapse of morality, as the reactionary romanticists believed? Must revolutions necessarily end violently, as did the French, Mexican, Russian, and Chinese revolutions? Or can revolutions sometime follow the American example?More to follow.