A public house in Pittsfield, Mass. Two men are at the bar: the bearded man stands, the mustachioed man sits. They take a drink of ale and the bearded man speaks.Melville: I'm doing it. I've decided.Hawthorne: Doing what?Melville: Writing my sodomy book.Hawthorne: Herman...Melville: Nathaniel...Hawthorne: It is unwise.Melville: Well...it's about sodomites more than sodomy.Hawthorne: Why would you do this?Melville: Sodomy exists, Nathaniel, and someone needs to write about it. It might as well be me.Hawthorne: You will be crucified.Melville: (laughing) By whom?Hawthorne: Everyone! The critics, everyone. Your writing career will be over.Melville: I've already begun the writing.Hawthorne: It is a waste of time. You should stop. Write another sea tale.Melville: Aaah, but that's why this is genius. Itisa sea tale. I'm writing about whaling, a giant sperm whale, shipboard camaraderie, obsession. There'll be a chapter dedicated to ambergris...or lovemaking depending on your perspective. But no one will ever know it's about sodomites.Hawthorne: Then why do it? If no one will know what you do then there is no point.Melville: We'll know.Hawthorne: I thought you were above such egotistical conceit.Melville: It isn't conceit. This is a story that needs to be told. You haven't been to sea, Nathaniel. It is part of the life out there. Even for those of us who do not take part, sodomy is always there. It is the secret life of sailors. And this story needs to be told for them, for everyone.Hawthorne: Yet they will not know. You say yourself that no one will know what you've written, just us. Just you and I.Melville: Some others will know. Literate sailors. Sodomites. Some will figure it out. Not everyone will miss the point.Hawthorne: That, then, is from whence the trouble will come. It is folly.Melville shakes his head and pulls an empty stool over to rest on. Hawthorne finishes his ale and calls for another. A fresh mug is set before himHawthorne: So what are you calling it?Melville: Moby-Dick.Hawthorne: Subtle.Melville: (shaking his head wryly) Just for that, I'm dedicating it to you.Hawthorne: You wouldn't dare! (pause) Yes, yes you would.Melville: Mmmmhmmm.Hawthorne: What does Lizzy think?Melville: She doesn't know.Hawthorne: You are truly a fool, Herman. (Melville shrugs as Hawthorne raises his fresh ale in a toast) To folly.Melville: I'll drink to that.