Book ReviewImagine being back in 1851 whenHerman Melvillepublished Moby-Dick, previously known as "The Whale." America was close to civil war. People and classes struggled against everything going on in their lives. No one had answers. It was a constant fight between the right thing and the wrong thing. And thus was born the giant struggle at the core of this book... it's not about trying to capture a whale or giant fish. It's what everything in the book symbolizes. But that's just the thing -- each reader takes something slightly different from the metaphors, allegories and metaphysical challenges being posed throughout the veins of this novel. For me, it was like reading Faust Part I by Goethe. Am I good or evil? And years later, I still have the same thoughts... not so much if am good or evil (Side Note: I'm evil, as most tell me)... but what's the right thing to do in any situation. There are always choices. Society will always judge you. That's life. That's humanity. I'd love to say it's only 10% but I'm fairly sure over 50% of our population judge when faced with this battle or societal game. It's a tough book to get through as you have to think about everything being said. You need to stop every few chapters and reflect. Plus, it's nearly 200 years old, so interpretation and values are much different.FYI - Read this years ago either as a kid or in college, but wrote up a review recently from my notes...About MeFor those new to me or my reviews... here's the scoop: I read A LOT. I write A LOT. And now I blog A LOT. First the book review goes on Goodreads, and then I send it on over to my WordPress blog athttps://thisismytruthnow.com, where you'll also find TV &amp; Film reviews, the revealing and introspective 365 Daily Challenge and lots of blogging about places I've visited all over the world. And you can find all my social media profiles to get the details on the who/what/when/where and my pictures. Leave a comment and let me know what you think. Vote in the poll and ratings. Thanks for stopping by.