Bloody hell, I'm freaking tired!So here's the deal. Most of my friends here on Goodreads know that I have been listening to these cd's from the library. Well, I just happened to check the status of their return because I should have had one more month for them to be renewed. Noooooooooooooooooo, on this book someone placed a hold and it's due soon so luckily I started listening to it a few days ago, but now I'm freaking tired because I have had to listen almost non stop while reading another book. Not much sleep. I do not like to listen to audio books for that long even if I LOVE the narrator!Anyhoo, I'm done and I can take my time with the next audio =)I didn't like this book as much as the other ones and it didn't even make my favorites list! =( All the other books are 5 star favorites. Oh well =(I don't like that the family is all broken up and in different places and of course Bree, Roger and the kids are back in the real time world. I must have missed the explanation at the beginning because Bree and Roger are able to read letters from Claire and Jamie. I don't get it and I'm not going to look for it. Oh, there was a book though that was written by Jamie, gave me a little tear in my eye when Roger read it.Grandfather Tales, the book was titled, with the subtitle, "Stories from the Highlands of Scotland and the Backcountry of the Carolinas," by James Alexander Malcolm MacKenzie Fraser. Again, printed by A. Bell, Edinburgh, in the same year. The dedication said simply, For my grandchildren.Claire's portrait had made him laugh; this one moved him almost to tears, and he closed the book gently.That was Roger that read that and he had seen a picture of Claire.Bree and Roger live in Lallybroch. I reckon they fixed it up all nice. It just breaks my heart.William (Jamie's son) is in the book more, what with him in the war and all.Jamie and Claire go back to Scotland after awhile and we get to meet up with some of the old characters, Jenny, Ian and the kids, who are grown up. And there is a death. And of course, on their way back to Scotland they get attacked by pirates and such again. Just stay off the freaking waters!Fergus and the gang are in the book a little bit.But, there is some crap that goes down at the end that I hated! It makes me sick and I want to drop kick Lord John Grey!!! Just grrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr.I'm hoping the next book is better than this one and I can get back to loving them or I'm going to kick something! I'm not listening to it right away though because, uh, I'm done listening for a little while after this one! I need a break!MY BLOG:Melissa Martin's Reading List