(will cross-post to goodreads and amazon)Hmmmm.....I've been trying to sort out my feelings about this book since I finished it last night. I really am confused and feel somewhat betrayed I guess. As a devout fan of this series, I feel that Gabaldon is just stringing her fans along with no real respect for them, and it irritates me.1. Obviously I love this series. No one gets to the 7th book in a series, each book being between 500-800 pages long, and each book being published 3-4 years apart, without being quite the fan.I love Gabaldon's straight-forward writing style. I love her attention to historical and medical accuracy. These things are what make her books stand out for me. I continuously try to explain to people that this series is NOT a Time Travel Romance series. It is SO SO much more. This last installment HAS all of these elements, which is why I gave it a four star rating rather than something lower. I also had to respect my status as a huge fan, and Gabaldon's obvious hardwork and research that goes into her writing.BUT.......2. I probably shouldn't have read an excerpt on Gabaldon's website a few years ago, because the excerpt (involving Jamie's return after being supposedly dead) colored my expectations of the action in this book.Throughout the reading, I kept waiting to get to THAT part, and everything else just felt like filler until those big plot points in the excerpts.So, I'm waiting for these elements of the story to arrive, and all the characters to converge as I felt they eventually would. But they never did!!!There was so much excruciating detail about things that it seemed the reader should care about, but I just didn't. Lord John's spy business. Percival Beauchamp. Why do we need to care? If it's important later on in the series, I don't know WHY. William lost in the fog. TWICE. And the excruciating minutaie of his experiences. His experiences do eventually become interesting, but in the meantime, I skimmed MANY MANY pages. This book easily could've been 500 pages insead of 800.So, as I skimmed pages, looking for the events that I knew were coming (a la the excerpt) I found I had quite reached the end of the book. The details in the excerpt DID come to pass, but not until the final 50 pages, and everything was not the same as it was in the excerpt. Then, the ending (I'll get to THAT later).3. Jamie and Claire are always the main thrill in these books. They actually didn't have a big part in this novel. The skipping around of POV was highly irritating. Just when I became interested in William, POV would change to Bree and Roger. Lord John's role was never interesting.The Bree and Roger POV was interesting to me. I did love the emotionally heart-rending scenes when they read letters from Jamie and Claire. I loved to see them reintegrate into modern society and how they dealt with the knowledge of time travel. THEIR action got REALLY interesting in the final scenes of the novel.Jamie and Claire. Love them. But I feel that Gabaldon took PAST scenes in past novels and just replayed them for Jamie and Claire. Claire preforming surgery on Jamie. Jamie and Claire involved in piracy and sea battles. Claire following Jamie to battle and performing medical procedures on the battlefield (over and over again to much excruciating detail). Really, there was more than one occasion when I had an acute since of deja vu, and I didn't like it.4. THE BLEEPIN' ENDING!!!! ARGH!!!!This is where my feelings of betrayal come in. It takes Gabaldon many years to publish these books. As a show of good faith, it is not right to leave the reading with SERIOUS cliffhangers. I mean, literallly, in the middle of the action, CLIFFHANGERS. Mid-scenes. Ugh.AND--I did not care AT ALL for what went on with Claire and Lord John at the end. The reunion of Jamie and Claire should've been touching but it was made inappropriately comical. It felt wrong. The entire, rushed, ending felt wrong.The revelations William came to....just all wrong. Too fast. Too horrible. I'm very upset and disappointed. Now what? Another four years? Hmm.