I should start off with a giant disclaimer that I am blinded by all things Outlander. Even an Outlander book with some problems is a 5 star book for me. The characters that I know and love more than make up for any qualms I have with the storyline. I don't think I have ever read a book with bigger cliffhangers than this one. A lot of criticisms I have read regarding the book center around the fact that so many different plot lines are left completely unresolved. I have to say it doesn't really bother me, because I know Diana is writing an 8th book and all will be well in the world of Jamie and Claire. That's not to say that I am patiently waiting for the next book, far from it! I CAN'T WAIT to find out what happens and I'm going to devour the next book the second it comes out. As for what did bother me...(view spoiler)[1. I'm not sure if I like the character of Rachel Hunter (I can't help thinking of the model, haha). For now, I'm keeping an open mind to see how her character develops and if she is fleshed out more in the next book. She is a bit one-dimensional at this point. Maybe I'm critical though because I love Ian so much and have high standards for him.2. I felt like I was missing some references and nuances to certain characters because I haven't read the Lord John books yet. I'm definitely going to be picking those up soon so the next time I read Echo (yes, I'm already planning a re-read of the whole series because I'm that obsessed, haha) I will hopefully be more educated about the background of the characters from those stories. That being said, I could have dealt with a little less Lord John (as much as I enjoy him) and a little more Jamie in certain parts.3. The whole Lord John--Jamie--Claire triangle was almost unbelievable. Claire should have realized that communication was spotty at best during that time and that there was a real possibility Jamie wasn't on the ship. *sigh* I should have seen the foreshadowing with the Jamie and Laoghaire interaction earlier in Echo. Anyway, I guess we will see how the drama is resolved in the next book. I fully believe that all will be well with Jamie and Claire though, because I can't imagine Diana writing a whole book with them at odds with each other.Now for the good stuff!!! I was so sad when Ian died. I definitely shed a few tears reading those scenes. I loved that Willie found out Jamie was his father. Loved that Roger and Briana are all settled in at Lallybroch (well, maybe WERE settled). Loved young Ian and Rollo as usual. Loved all the Claire/Jamie interaction. I could go on and on...(hide spoiler)]But, I think though that my absolute favorite part about Echo is seeing the evolution of the characters. I think that it is nothing short of amazing that Diana can write about the same characters over and over again and still make them grow and evolve as people. I loved reading Echo and thinking back to what Jamie and Claire were like in Outlander and even young Ian in earlier books. They really have grown up and grown older. I think that that is the key to what makes Jamie, Claire, and the rest so lovable and so real; Diana writes them as if they are real people who grow, change, and live. I know them and love them and can't wait to see what happens next.Re-read Update (2/21/2011): I just finished re-reading the entire Outlander series and all of the Lord John books/novellas. I definitely enjoyed Echo much better the second time around. Although DG has written Echo in such a way that you don't necessarily have to have read the Lord John stories to figure out who certain characters are, I don't think that Echo can be fully appreciated unless you've read them. I highly recommend reading them first. The first time I read Echo, I thought there was a little too much of Lord John, but it really didn't bother me on my second read (possibly because I've read the Lord John stories and enjoy him as a character even more now). Rachel Hunter's character also seemed a little weak to me on my initial read, but I liked her more the second time around. However, I would still like to see her character developed more. What did still bother me on my re-read was the whole Lord John-Claire-Jamie development. It just feels overly fabricated to me. Part Six of Echo was probably my favorite section (I can't even count how many times I got teary-eyed during that Part), but it just goes downhill in Part Seven. I wish DG had ended Echo at Part Six (obviously adding a little extra for finesse) and left Part Seven for the beginning of Book Eight. Echo is what it is though and I'm very glad I read it a second time. 5 Stars.