When Zara, a high school student, moves to a small town in Maine from Charleston to stay with her grandmother, she has to try to start her life over once her step father dies. It is hard for her because she hates the cold and it is snowing there all the time and she can't do much but stay inside the house. She resents her mother for sending her away and doesn't like school at all. The only thing she can do is suck it up and live....which is exactly why her mother sent her away. After her step father died, she was a ghost and cried all the time and did nothing. It started to worry her mom. Well the first day of school she meets Ian, who walks her to every class. He seems like a nice guy and he seems to take an interest in Zara. Then during her gym class she meets a sweet and overly perky Izzy. They instantly become friends. Izzy is the perfect kind of friend anyone would be lucky to have. And it brings me to Nick, the unbelivably hot and charming boy who Zara would never thought would be interested in her. He's too good looking, or is he? Yes, he totally likes Zara. But he has a secret....only a few people know about. It seems Zara's past keeps haunting her. A mysterious man whom she saw a few times in Charleston has followed her to Maine. And it is freaking her out. He shows up at their school outside the window of the cafeteria. The only thing is, he leaves no tracks or footprints in the snow. No way to track him. And apparently some boys have gone missing. What is going on in this strange little dinky town of Maine with almost zero population? With help of her new friends she sets out to try and solve the mysteries. This is a page turning, heart stopping, incredible book about friends who stop at nothing to help save their town from destruction with a little bit of magic mixed in and lots of unbelievable twists and turns that want you needing more!! You definitely don't want to miss this!I have found yet another series that totally stole my heart from the very start. The first book of the Need series by Carrie Jones is absolutely astonishing and fantastic. I just love how she writes, her style is like none other. I read this in 2 days. I lost sleep. But I couldn't put the book down. I love the characters and you really get to know them and their personalities. They always have each others' backs and stick together no matter what obstacles get in their way. I recommend this book to anyone and everyone! There are 3 more books (2 that are actually out now). So once you finish the first, you have to read the next one right away. Highly addictive!One of my favorite things about this book is each chapter starts with a phobia that I am guessing she has or she should have. It is such a cute idea to add it. I have learned about phobias that I never thought about.