Among the Hidden...a wonderful book...futuristic!! Luke Garner is a third child, a hidden child. After the government passed the population law, third children and pets have been outlawed. But Luke's mother had always wanted four boys-"Matthew, Mark, Luke and John," she says.When Luke's farmland is bought to be turned into a neighborhood of barons, Luke takes interest to watching out of his attic vents. The Sports family's home, the Blonde family's home...he names them all. But wait...was that a face in the window of the Sport's family's house? Luke is too timid to find out...or is he?In a way, some people I know are like Luke...sitting around letting the world be changed for them. I am not like that at all. If I were Luke, I would try to change the world. I'd stay outside, letting that late summer air blow in my eyes. My mom and dad would say to the questioning people, "Oh, she's our niece, that's...Patty." I would try to be Patty for as long as I could, as I show unquestionable loyalty to my family and close friends.Anyway, Luke, sitting in his attic, creates a plan. He breaks into the Sports family's house, and finds Jen, another "shadow child," as she puts it. Jen is me, the complete opposite of Luke, bold and daring. Jen and Luke become fast friends, but in April before Jen's rally, Luke turns down her offer. Jen wants to rally in front of the White House, to protest the population law. She and Luke have a big fight, leaving Luke scared and alone. Soon she returns to his house, to say goodbye as she leaves for the rally.When Jen doesn't come back, Luke is horrified and nervous. What if Jen-he can't bring himself to think of it. Overcome by curiosity, Luke sneaks back to Jen's house, where he is told by Jen's father that she is dead.At the end of the book, I myself was full of questions. Will Luke change the world like he promised to Jen's spirit? Will he get caught? Will he ever see his family again? But most importantly: When will Margaret Peterson Haddix write a sequel?