Nobel Laureate Gabriel Garcia Marquez who is best known for his One Hundred Years of Solitude penned a novella A Chronicle of Death Foretold based on real life events that he witnessed. In this novella, Marquez tells through the eyes of an unnamed narrator the events that lead to the murder of Santiago Nasar. It is in the characterizations of the personas this short book that we get a taste of Marquez' brilliance which won him many honors during his writing career.Santiago Nasar is the only child of Ibrahim Nasar and Placida Nacido. He is engaged to be married to Flor Miguel, but as his father before him, has engaged in trysts with his housekeeper's daughter. Likewise he has frequented a whorehouse and has an intimate relationship with its matron.Meanwhile Bayardo San Ramon and Angela Vicario are to be married. Angela is not a virgin and San Ramon kicks her out of their marriage chamber. She is dishonored by her mother, and her twin brothers Pablo and Pedro are determined to kill the man responsible for their sister's reckless behavior. All signs point to Santiago Nasar.The narrator tells this tale when all principal players have reached middle age. A boyhood friend of Nasar and a cousin of the Vicarios, he is determined to find out if Nasar was really guilty. Angela has paid the price, living like an old maid, yet still professing her love to Bayardo San Ramon after all these years. Yet despite the narrator's attempts to piece all the evidence together, Angela will not reveal the key clue, leaving the reader hanging throughout this short tale.Even in this short tale, it is obvious to me that Garcia Marquez knows how to weave a story together. I am fan of Isabel Allende and people tell me that her writing reminds them of Garcia Marquez. As this is my first taste of his writing, I can sense the similarities- many characters in a Latin American village, the opening sentences containing flashbacks, and a high level of magical realism. I rate this novella 4 stars for its short length as I look forward to reading Garcia Marquez' opus which earned him international renown.