In your mind, picture an old man who dines in a nearby cafe everyday. He works in an office as a bookkeeper, probably few years before his retirement. He is living alone in his apartment a block away from that cafe. You oftentimes eat in that restaurant and whenever you do, you see him on that chair facing the window, silently eating the same meal, talking to no one except nodding to the waitress and once in a while glancing at the view outside.You hesitate to talk to him. Probably he seems to be too old for you to befriend. Probably his wrinkles, his worn-out suit and his silence make him seemingly unapproachable. Probably he will just ignore you because you are like a shallow-minded spring chicken to him if you try to get his attention. Probably, probably.The Book of Disquietis a revelation about a man similar to what I have just described above. During his lifetime, Fernando Pessoa, using one of his many heteronyms (fictional names of writers with points of view and literary styles different from that of Pessoa's) ofBernardo Soareswrote his thoughts and feelings on sheets of papers or even napkins and put these writing in one box. When he died, his relatives saw these sheets of papers and 50 years after his death, this book was published.And oh boy, if you only have the courage to befriend an old man and ignore your personal bias about having a friend a lot older (or younger) than you, it would have been an exhilarating experience. The man sitting in that cafe is a wonderful guy with deeply philosophical thoughts. He is a dreamer and in his dreams he does all sorts of mind-boggling thinking that I end up dogearing half of the pages of this book because there are so many beautiful, beautiful passages about life. Those quotes seem like poetry in prose to me.So far, the best 1001 book that I've read this year. Thanks to my brother Joselito for highly recommending this book to me. He read this in his Kindle last year and when he saw a copy in Powerbooks, he texted me right away saying that I must go to that bookstore immediately and buy (because I don't have a Kindle) this lone copy. He said that this book was the best 1001 he read last year. This book is not for everyone though. One has to slow down while reading to savor the beauty of Pessoa's prose. In fact, it took me almost a full month to finish this book but I must say that all the many hours I spent in it were all well-spent.Highly recommended to all those who have the patience to know fragmented yet beautiful thoughts of an old philosophical man.