Like a Version (Touched for the Very First Time)This is an exceptional book or work or whatever you want to call it.However, ultimately, I found it both fascinating and (just a little bit) frustrating.One source of frustration is that, upon completing it, I discovered that the version I had read (translated by Margaret Jull Costa) was 262 pages, whereas the Penguin Classics version (translated by Richard Zenith) is 544 pages. I hate it when this happens. I feel duped. Nothing had forewarned me of this possibility.Readers have different views on the merits of the translations. I was perfectly happy with the quality of the text in the version I read (plus I love the cover!). However, the sheer difference in length has made me question whether and, if so, how much, text was omitted from the earlier version.This might not be such a big deal. If indeed there is a difference in the amount of text, I imagine that much of it might have replicated what was included in the original version. There is already considerable duplication in the work. Alternatively, it might have consisted of complementary material, the absence of which did not detract from the content of the original version.Regardless, the fact that this issue occurred at all points to another cause of my frustration.Fragments from under the FloorboardsBoth versions of the work have been presented to the reader as if it was a novel. It's even suggested that it's one of the great Modernist novels of the 20th Century.I don't want to be precious about the definition of the word "novel". As far as I'm concerned, if the author thinks their work is a novel, that's good enough for me.However, here, the work as a whole (in whatever version) has been assembled by a team of experts and editors from a trunk full of hundreds or thousands of fragments.It's not clear whether Pessoa regarded the project as a novel. Nor is it clear whether he regarded any version or part of the project as a finished work. Or in what order he would have presented the work or novel, had he finished it.The sequence in which the fragments have been ordered (presumably, from a selection) is actually a triumph of sympathetic editing.However, I'm not sure whether, if the author intended the work to be a novel, it would have looked anything like what I read.To the extent that its formal concerns might qualify it as a work of Modernist fiction, you have to ask whether they derive from the author or his editors.Textual PersonaeI am nevertheless equally fascinated by the metafictional pretence behind its submission to the reader.The work purports to be the product of the heteronymic author, Bernardo Soares, a figment of Pessoa's imagination.Soares was not just a pseudonym for Pessoa writing as himself. He was a fully-fledged persona, clearly differentiated from Pessoa and many other heteronyms he used to imagine and write other discrete aspects of his work.Thus, the existence of the heteronym allowed Pessoa to fully explore aspects of his imagination, aesthetics and philosophy, without any limitation inferred from its ultimate source in the one person. (Mind you, Pessoa acknowledged that Soares most resembled his true self ["me minus reason and affectivity"], to the extent there might only have been one.)The result is that this work is not just fragmentary in its own right. It is the product of a fragmented author.Whether or not it was ever intended to be a novel (by either of its"authors"), the work itself (or at least the analysis of it) fits within the concerns of Modernism, if not Post-Modernism (which I maintain is a branch of Modernism, a sub-movement, not a separate movement).Melancholy NihilismThe fragmentation also reflects the philosophical concerns of the author(s).Ultimately, I sense that this is a philosophical work, rather than a fictional work.It's a fragmented, but ultimately comprehensive and systematic, contemplation of the narrator's world and his place in it. The narrator is a thinker, not a man of action. Little happens in the work other than thinking about the self and its relationship with others and the world. It's not quite solipsistic, because the narrator acknowledges the existence of the outside world. However, for him, his own mind is of paramount concern.The editors have assembled the fragments in a thematic way, even though the same themes appear multiple times in the finished text. It could equally have been organised a different way. Or distilled into a short work of melancholy wisdom.The work is a testament to inveterate egoism, miserabilism and misanthropy. Yet, it's been fashioned into a comprehensible philosophy.If sub-headings were added as signposts, it would make a fantastic guide to nihilism or whatever you want to call this particular philosophy. I am reluctant to describe it as Existentialism, because of the apparent lack of Humanism.Whatever you call it, it purports to be a philosophy made by a melancholy person for melancholy people, to the extent that there is any concern for others at all.Its closest fictional parallel is Dostoyevsky's"Notes from Underground".Prepossessing AphorismsIt's hard to say how much readers are expected to distance themselves from the ostensible authors or their philosophy.Even if it's serious, it would be ironic if only sad or self-pitying readers related to or enjoyed this work.Its beauty resides in the quality of writing, which can be enjoyed by all readers with a metaphysical bent.Indeed, if all philosophy were conceived and written this lyrically, it wouldn't be the preserve of desk-bound, incomprehensible polysyllabists and LL.B.'s that it seems to have become.This work is as literary and aphoristic as Friedrich Nietzsche, Oscar Wilde and George Bernard Shaw.You can understand and enjoy it, even if you don't agree or sympathise with its underlying philosophy.Ultimately, for this reason alone, it is a creative work, if not necessarily fiction.Still, there is always the possibility that the fiction lies in the creation of a non-fiction work by a fictitious author, narrator or character (as ably assisted by the experts and editors)! It's hard to tell whether the metaphysics is bona fide or purely metafictional.The whole text or philosophy might even be ironic. Who knows? Perhaps Johnny Marr could put it to music!At least this prospect makes it good for a laugh or maybe even a dance. Roger Wilco Foxtrot!"A Mercator Projection of the Soul"[An Assemblage of Aphorisms]Below are some aphorisms that map the metaphysical journey of the work:Life and the Abyss:Life would be unbearable if we were truly conscious of it. (212)If there is one thing life gives us, apart from life itself, and for which we must thank the gods, it is the gift of not knowing ourselves: of not knowing ourselves and of not knowing one another. The human soul is an abyss of viscous darkness...no one would love themselves if they really knew themselves...(236)Nihilism and Illusion:In order not to demean ourselves in our own eyes, it is enough that we should become accustomed to harbouring no ambitions, passions, desires, hopes, impulses or feelings of restlessness.(186)Once we believe this world to be merely an illusion and a phantasm, we are then free to consider everything that happens to us as a dream, something that only pretended to because we were asleep.(220)Death and Inaction:I've become a character in a book, a life already dead. Quite against my wishes, what I feel is felt in order for me to write it down.(139)Living seems to me a metaphysical mistake on the part of matter, an oversight on the part of inaction.(114)Looking and Feeling:For me, humanity is one vast decorative motif, existing through one's eyes and ears and through psychological emotion. I demand nothing more from life than to be a spectator of it. I demand nothing more from myself than to be a spectator of life.(198)I am an endlessly sensitive photographic plate. In me every tiny detail is recorded and magnified in order to form part of a whole. I concern myself only with myself. For me the external world is pure sensation. I never forget what I feel.(178)Egoism and Disquiet:That is my morality or my metaphysics or me myself: a passer-by in everything, even in my own soul. I belong to nothing, I desire nothing, I am nothing except an abstract centre of impersonal sensations, a sentient mirror fallen from the wall but still turned to reflect the diversity of the world. I don't care if this makes me happy or unhappy, and I don't much care.(151)The generation to which I belong was born into a world devoid of certainty for anyone possessed of both an intellect and a heart...the world into which we were born had no security to offer us as regards religion, no anchor as regards morality, no stability as regards politics. We were born into a state of anguish, both metaphysical and moral, and of political disquiet.(206)Love and Onanism:We never love anyone. We love only our idea of what someone is like. We love an idea of our own; in short, it is ourselves that we love...The onanist may be an abject creature but in truth he is the logical expression of the lover. He is the only one who neither disguises nor deludes himself.(218)To love is merely to grow tired of being alone: it is therefore both cowardice and a betrayal of ourselves (it is vitally important that we should not love).(240)Futility and Nothingness:The one reason we get on together is that we know nothing about one another.Love disturbs and wearies, action dissipates and disappoints, no one truly knows how to know, and thinking confuses everything. Better then to put a stop to all our desires and hopes, to our futile attempts to explain the world, or to any foolish ambitions to change or govern it. Everything is nothing...(242)Tedium and Worthlessness:Tedium is not a sickness brought on by the boredom of having nothing to do, but the worse sickness of feeling that nothing is worth doing.(91)Tedium is boredom with the world, the malaise of living, the weariness of having lived; in truth, tedium is the feeling in one's flesh of the endless emptiness of things.(122)Silence and Emptiness:I feel this because I feel nothing. I think this because this is all nothing. Nothing, nothing, just part of the night and the silence and of whatever emptiness, negativity and inconstancy I share with them, the space that exists between me and me, a thing mislaid by some god...(262)ADDED EXTRAS:(view spoiler)[["Just as Some Music Makes Me Want to Dance,Some Words Make Me Want to Play"](hide spoiler)]Rather than doing updates, the text prompted me to write some mock "verse", inspired by either Pessoa's words (in which case I have simply versified them more or less intact) or the tone of his text.I also wrote a story that I placed in comment #1 in the thread.The Semi-Heteronym (Me Minus Reason and Affectivity)As luck would have it,If I was there, so was thisParticular man.Transmitted by ConcupiscenceOnce I wasInnocent,But that wasOnly onceAnd manyYears ago.On Making a MockeryIt doesn't matterIf you laugh at me,For I too have scornIn my armoury.Just Doodles HaikuThese are the doodlesOf my incomprehensionOf my consciousness.Lost in AnalysisI lost myselfIn abstract thought,But found myselfOnce more againIn the pagesI wrested fromOblivion.Heidegger's Children[In the Words of Bernardo Soares]Autumn will takeEv'ry singlePhilosophyThat Heidegger'sDrowsy childrenOf the abyssPlay at making.Anticipatory Retrospection[In the Words of Bernardo Soares]I remember him nowAs I will in the futureWith the nostalgia I knowI will feel for him then.We Find One Another WantingSolitude torments us,Though it's habitual.Company oppresses us,Despite its ritual.Never Go Too NearKnow the differenceBetween voluptuousnessAnd noble pleasure.Fragments of a Rainy Season[In the Words of Bernardo Soares]These words are guessesMade in the void,Trembling on the brinkOf the deepest abyss.Through them tricklesThe plangent soundOf the constant rainOutside the window.What She Offers to My Eyes[In the Words of Bernardo Soares]This is how I love:I love with my eyes,Not my fantasy.I don't fantasise;I don't imagine.I keep whole a heart,Given over toUnreal destinies.A Shot in the Arm[In the Words of Roger Wilco]What I onceThought isn'tWhat I wantTo believeAny more.No Self-Pity Them[Assembled from the Words and Thoughts of Bernardo Soares]IWise men achieveTheir happinessBy making lifeMonotonous.For then, for them,Tiny incidentsAre imbued withGreat significance.IIWise men protect their soulsWith just their human senses.At the onset of any sadness,They assert their innocence.The wise shirk the disquietOf other men's existence,And defy successive tragediesWith consummate indifference.SOUNDTRACK:See comment #2 in the thread.