This was quite and ending to a wonderful series, and I have to say that Rapture really tugged at my heart. I didn't think I would have this reaction. I didn't think the end of the series would affect me this much, but it has. I am saddened to know that Rapture is the final book *actually crying here.* And no one will understand this more than my fellow readers *sniff sniff.* I really hate saying goodbye to characters that I have grown to love over the years. We have shared some good times, and bad. We have fallen in love, over and over again, for a millennia and we have challenged evil, for the sake of the world. This story really was something special *sighs.*I really don't think I should give an outline as to what happens in the story. Let me just say that you will all get the answers you need and more. So much goes down it really is hard to divulge without spoiling it, so trust me, if you are a fan of the Fallen Series, Rapture will not disappoint. The only thing that made me sad the most was the ending just a little, only because I didn't want to say goodbye. Not to Luce and Daniel, or Arianne and Roland, or Annabelle and especially not to Cam, my sweet but oh so devilish Cam :( Oh how I wish that Lauren Kate writes his story. Cam, has so much to tell and it sort of felt like the best was yet to come with him. And, it was a scene with Cam and Luce, right at the end that made me start to cry. I had to share it here. "He drew her close, and for a moment, she thought he was going to kiss her. Her heart pounded as his lips bypassed hers and came to a stop, whispering in her ear: 'Don't let him flip you off next time.'" I just lost it here when Cam said this to Luce :( He may have chosen the side of Lucifer, but he still knew what it meant to love and lose it. I love you Cam!Ok, on that note, while I wipe the tears away, I am signing off and saying goodbye to a wonderful series that will forever be in my heart, and made me believe that no matter what, I'll can and always will choose love! Beautiful!