As the last installment for the Fallen series, Lauren Kate did a truly spectacular grand finale for one of the best YA book series. It made me feel a lot of emotions like happiness, sadness and a mixture of both. It made me laugh, anxious and cry. Now, that's the true definition of an unforgettable story.What I Love:[_] The plot. Ever since I had readFallen, I know there's something worth reading in it. Have you ever read a YA book where there are two lovers and the girl keeps on dying at the age of seventeen? And despite of the 'dying' part, they still love one another so much the guy is willing to wait for more thousand years and still love the girl for a thousand more even if there's a chance that they will never end up together? (Ok, I got that from my favorite song "A Thousand Years" by Christina Perri.)Now, that's what I call a unique and beautiful plot every girl (especially hopeless romantics like me) would truly want to read. An everlasting true love- a love that never dies and will stay bind together no matter what happens and succeeds in the end.[_]The ending! It should be given emphasis for how brilliant, astounding, amazing and wonderful it is! The ending is truly unpredictable and gives a loud BOOM (or explosion) to the whole plot of the story. It is one of theBESTendings I've ever read that made me feel so happy and sad at the same time. And it also made me bawl my eyes out for crying over Luce and Daniel. D":[_] The characters! Sure, Luce can be Bella-like sometimes but I still adore her in some ways.And Daniel, goodness! Don't even get me started on Daniel! He is the ideal guy every girl will die for! I've never seen such loyalty and devotion he showed to Luce and take note: He's willing to wait and suffer for her just to show how much he truly loves her! Ahh! That is truly romantic! I wish there's a real Daniel still present in this world!Arriane: tsk tsk, at first, I really like her but(view spoiler)[ after readingFallen in Love, it is revealed that she is actually a lesbian and her lover, who is a demon, already died of blood loss(hide spoiler)], I don't like her that much anymore.Gabbe: I already like her since the first book. I know there's more to her than good looks.(view spoiler)[ And I grieve so much when she died protecting Luce and Daniel. R.I.P. Gabbe. :'((hide spoiler)].Molly: At first (by Luce's description in Fallen), I dislike her but after reading that scene(view spoiler)[ where she, together with Gabbe protected Luce and Daniel from the deadly starshots and getting killed in the process(hide spoiler)], I like her. She's one of the least persons I'll ever think that will do such a thing!(view spoiler)[ And I'm pretty sure Gabbe and Molly knew what the price is when they saved Luce and Daniel.(hide spoiler)]Cam: I like him and it is a pity he didn't end up with anyone. :'(Roland: I like him too! And here I thought he and Arriane will make a good couple! His love life is truly tragic and even if he's a demon, he's a really good person and doesn't deserve such a thing (I'm talking about his valentines day inFallen in Love).The characters are really likable and everyone can relate to them.[_] Writing style. I love Lauren Kate's writing style! The words flow freely like the river peacefully flowing to the waterfalls. I also love how the scenes harmonized together.[_] Cover! The cover is very catchy just like the other three installments and like the other three, Luce was shown. Truly artistic.What I dislike:[_] Lucinda is kind of a Mary-Sue.(view spoiler)[ Lucinda Price is actually an angel favored by God and the third archangel. Ok, that's alright but that's not the reason why I called her a Mary Sue. The only thing I couldn't understand is that why Lucinda is actually a lover of Lucifer. Seriously? Does it sound good to you? I mean, come on! I didn'teverthink Lucifer can actually know what love is! And also according to this book, Lucifer invented Love. Oh great.(hide spoiler)]But since it's fiction and a fantasy YA novel, anything's possible. So yeah, that's my only problem but now that I'm thinking of it, it did add a spice on the story. But I still dislike it. Sorry. :/[_] There are some things that up till to the fourth book, Lauren Kate didn't clear up and will possibly stay vague and a mystery to all of us.[_] The ending! I dislike how cliffhanger-y the ending is! It is a major case that made me want to bang my head countless of times!(Oh, that reminds me what Rick Riordan did onThe Son of Neptunethat I needed o wait aWHOLEyear just to know what happened next! Argh! **bangs head* But at least,The Son of Neptunestill has a sequel whileRaptureis already the end which up till now, by the way, something I can't accept.)Yes, I know that it is really good and that's why I put it to the things I love but what Lauren Kate did to the ending is unforgivable! Waaahhh! Lauren Kate should really make a sequel to this series!I need more Luce and Daniel moments in here! Like how did Luce and Daniel(view spoiler)[ now as ordinary human beings(hide spoiler)]develop and end up together? Will the newly born Luce and Daniel still recognize Arriane, Roland, Cam, Shelby and Miles when they meet? Or will they ever meet them again? What'll happen when they died? Are they going to Heaven and still be together? Argh! *bangs head* I. NEED. MORE!Conclusion:RapturebyLauren Kateis a really great book with a great plot and a spectacular ending that will always stay not only in my mind but also to the other YA readers who'll never forget the strong and everlasting true love Luce and Daniel shared. And the ending is truly breathless for it gives you this feeling that they're finally allowed to be together up to the end of their lives.Even if Luce is kind of a Mary-Sue and there are still some questions that are left unanswered and will stay as a mystery, I'm giving Rapture by Lauren Kate five stars. :)