Life is atrocious, we know. But precisely because I expect little of the human condition, man's periods of felicity, his partial progress, his efforts to begin over again and to continue, all seem to me like so many prodigies which nearly compensate for the monstrous mass of ills and defeats, of indifference and error. Catastrophe and ruin will come; disorder will triumph, but order will too, from time to time. Peace will again establish itself between two periods of war; the words humanity, liberty and justice will here and there regain again the meaning which we have tried to give them. Not all our books will perish, nor our statues, if broken, lie unrepaired; other domes and other pediments will arise from our domes and pediments; some few men will think and work and feel as we have done, and I venture to count upon such continuators, placed irregularly throughout the centuries, and upon this kind of intermittent immortality.Margaret Yourcenar started working on the novel before, during and in the aftermath of a global war. This collapse of the social and moral structures may explain why she has chosen as her subject of historical study the life of the Roman emperor Hadrian, and why she considers this man still relevant from a contemporary point of view. It is not enough to pinpoint what is wrong to the world and to remark on how history repeats itself. We also need role models, souls bright like lighthouses to guide our wandering ships to safe harbour. Between the multitude of Gods of antiquity and the inflexible dogma of the Middle Ages, Yourcenar positions Hadrian as a brief triumph of reason, compassion and tolerance. This flame of humanism that was born with the Greek civilization, Hadrian rekindles and pays it forward to later generations. These ancient beliefs and atitudes are easy to discern in the later ideals of the Renaissance and of the French Revolution. Yourcenar gives credit to the correspondence of Gustave Flaubert for the inspiration to start the novel:"Just when the gods had ceased to be, and the Christ had not yet come, there was a unique moment in history, between Cicero and Marcus Aurelius, when man stood alone." A great part of my life was going to be spent in trying to define, and then to portray, that man existing alone and yet closely bound to all being.Some of his contemporaries deified Hadrian, others condemned him as a bloody dictator or a degenerate sensualist. Margaret Yourcear perused the available sources to extract from them the man behind the public facade. A regular historian would be satisfied with compiling and organizing the information in these primary sources. Yourcenar wants to go one step further, and to find the universal truths that define and explain the life of the emperor.Once I had thought chiefly of the man of letters, the traveller, the poet, the lover; none of that had faded, to be sure, but now for the first time I could see among all those figures, standing out with great clarity of line, the most official and yet the most hidden form of all, that of the emperor. The fact of having lived in a world which is toppling around us had taught me the importance of the Prince.She choses a confessional mode for her exposition: the elderly Hadrian is writing a letter to his chosen succesor, mixing concerns about his legacy with recollections of the important waystations in his journey, administrative decisions with intimate details of his private life. The comparison with the quest of Proust to recapture 'les temps perdus' is not at all far-fetched: Hadrian is establishing a similar relationship between the personal and the universal, between the inner life of the mind and the outer experience of the senses.In our day, when introspection tends to dominate literary forms, the historical novel, or what may for convenience's sake be called by that name, must take the plunge into time recaptured, and must fully establish itself within some inner world.Since the author gives us the key to her novel, let's look not at the historical events in the life of Hadrian, but at his convinctions and at his aspirations. Law and order comes first, a policy made urgent by the recklessness and te wasteful management of his predecessors who were more interested in the glory of military conquest (Trajan) or in debauchery (Nero, Caligula). Although renowned as a military leader and admired throughout the army, as soon as he became emperor, Hadrian instaurated a policy of peace through strength, refusing plans to expand the empire, negotiating peace with former enemies and building fortresses and defensive walls on the existing borders. Inside the empire, he revised the code of laws and administered justice directly, in an authorian manner that accepted few dissenting opinions.It mattered little to me that the accord obtained was external, imposed from without and perhaps temporary; I knew that good like bad becomes a routine, that the temporary tends to endure, that what is external permeates to the inside, and that the mask, given time, comes to be the face itself. Since hatred, stupidity, and delirium have lasting effects, I saw no reason why good will, clarity of mind and just practice would not have their effects, too.Hadrian's moral compass comes from the stoic tradition of Republican Rome, informed by the humanist philosophy of ancient Greece. Before engaging in his military career, Hadrian was a scholar with a particular interest in the Hellenistic culture. Athens will be more of a home to him than Rome, and he will invest both money and energy in revitalising the city.The true birthplace is that wherein for the first time one looks intelligently upon oneself; my first homelands have been books, and to a lesser degree schools.Two rulings in particular have impressed me from the examples of Hadrian's administration of justice. The first could be still aplied today in regard to the future trades and stock market speculators in basic goods, like food and fuel:No law is too strict which makes for reduction of the countless intermediaries who swarm in our cities, an obscene, fat and paunchy race, whispering in every tavern, leaning on every counter, ready to undermine any policy which is not to their immediate advantage.The second ruling shows a man weel ahead of his time in the relation between sexes, arguing in favour of treating women as equals in the face of the law:The law should differ as little as possible from accustomed practice, so I have granted women greater liberty to administer or to bequeath their fortunes, and to inherit. I have insisted that no woman should be married without her consent; this form of legalized rape is as offensive as any other.An oversimplification of the course of history separates the leaders into builders and destroyers, with the lion's share of attention given to the latter. Hadrian belongs firmly in the former category. Some of his projects are easy to include here: the defensive walls and the forts he established, the new cities he founded, the temples and the libraries he sponsored. Others actions are more subtle : the revised legislation, the promotion of adminstrators and military leaders on merits, the poets, philosophers and artists that he gathered at his court. In his long letter to his succesor, both a confessional and a manual for leadership, Hadrian search for immortality leads away from the material things and into spiritual strength.I admitted that it was indeed vain to hope for an eternity for Athens and for Rome which is accorded neither to objects nor men, and which the wisest among us deny even to the gods. These subtle and complex forms of life, these civilizations comfortably installed in their refinements of ease and art, the very freedom of mind to seek and to judge, all this depended upon countless rare chances, upon conditions almost impossible to bring about, and none of which could be expected to endure.The greatness of this man comes from his clarity of vision that, faced with the inevitability of defeat, refuses to give in to entropy, and continues to raise his barricades against the massing barbarians at the borders.The founding of libraries was like constructing more public granaries, amassing reserves against a spiritual winter which by certain signs, in spite of myself, I see ahead.In a similar vein, Hadrian urges his heir and his countrymen to preserve the heritage of past generations:... it would take only a few wars, and the misery that follows them, or a single period of brutality or savagery under a few bad rulers to destroy forever the ideas passed down with the help of these frail objects in fiber and ink. Each man fortunate enough to benefit to some degree from this legacy of culture seemed to me responsible for protecting it and holding it in trust for the human race.These words are prophetic, and I only have to give the example of the recent war in Iraq and of the destruction of countless priceless manuscripts and artefacts in the looting of the libraries and museums to argue the relevance of Hadrian's words.Perhaps the most controversial of Hadrian's actions is the cruel repression of the rebellion in Israel, towards the end of his rule. As emperor, Hadrian also fulfills the role of head of the Roman religion. In this role, he had consistently encouraged tolerance and acceptance of other views and other opinions, arguing that all different religions are related, and one intelligent man can easily see the similarities between Assirian, Egyptian, Greek and Roman deities, that it is better to find common ground than to fight over the merits of one particular godling over another. His policy of integration and peaceful coexistence stumbled when he tried to modernize the city of Jerusalem, an early alarm signal of the kind of monoteistic and intransigent religious spirit that will come to dominate the coming centuries, extending from Judaism to Christianity and Islamism:No people but Israel has the arrogance to confine truth wholly within the narrow limits of a single conception of the divine, thereby insulting the manifold nature of the Deity, who contains all; no other god has inspired his worshippers with disdain and hatred for those who pray at different altars. I was only the more anxious to make Jerusalem a city like the others, where several races and several beliefs could live in peace; but I was wrong to forget that in any combat between fanaticism and common sense the latter has rarely the upper hand.As a counterweight to this coming scourge of civilization, the solution envisioned by Hadrian is to make Rome eternal not in its stones or in its secular borders, but in spirit:Rome would be perpetuated herself in the least of the towns where magistrates strive to demand just weight from the merchants, to clean and light the streets, to combat disorder, slackness, superstition and injustice, and to give broader and fairer interpretation to the laws. She would endure to the end of the last city built by man.Already, we have moved from historical events to a higherr philosophical debate: civilization against survival of the fittest, man against fate, the personal against the social. Yourcenar is not content to touch on the greater themes: she presents to us Hadrian the lover, the poet, the disillusioned dreamer who refuses to give up his ideals, the lonely ruler who has been abandoned by his friends and lovers and who now balances his minor victories with a long series of mistakes and regrets.Already certain portions of my life are like dismantled rooms of a palace too vast for an impoverished owner to occupy in its entirety.A certain type of reader will search through these memoirs looking for the spicy bits of gossip and scandalous behaviour, for the corruption of underage ephebs and other signs of moral decadence. After all, Hadrian created a whole religious cult after the death of his favorite, Antinous. For me, the introspective fragments where Hadrian confesses his secret love and his lustful yearnings are the best part of the novel, the prose transmuting into pure poetry:Of all our games, love's play is the only one which threatens to unsettle the soul, and is also the only one in which the player has to abandon himself to the body's ecstasy. To put reason aside is not indispensable for a drinker, but the lover who leaves reason in control does not follow his god to the end.The rationalist and the humanist admits defeat in matters of the heart, turning to astrologers, oracles and secret societies in order to investigate the deeper recesses of the psyche:Popular tradition has not been wrong in regarding love as a form of initiation, one of the points of encounter of the secret with the sacred.Hadrian wrote some verse by his own hand, and I didn't bother to check if Yourcenar quotes him or lets her own inspiration guide her in the portrait of this extraordinary man. One last quote should be enough to illustrate my argument that the Memoirs are more than a historical novel and cross the genre borders to merit a place among the enduring classics of world literature:The landscape of my days appears to be composed, like mountainous regions, of varied materials heaped up pell-mell. There I see my nature, itself composite, made up of equal parts of instinct and training. Here and there protrude the granite peaks of the inevitable, but all about is rubble from the landslips of chance. I strive to retrace my life to find in it some plan, following a vein of lead, or of gold, or the course of some subterranean stream, but such devices are only tricks of perspective in my memory. From time to time, in an ecounter or an omen, or in a particular series of happenings, I think I recognize the working of fate, but too many paths lead nowhere at all, and too many sums add up to nothing. To be sure, I perceive in this diversity and disorder the presence of a person; but his form seems nearly always to be shaped by the pressure of circumstances; his features are blurred, like a face reflected in water.This was not an easy review to compose, as I feel that looking at isolated bricks detracts one from seeing the monumental edifice built through the efforts of a single man (a case of not seeing the forest because you are too close to the trees). A more elegant solution is to make a one phrase review, to capture the essence of the emperor and of his heritage in a simple and elegant form, something Yourcenar can be relied upon to deliver:I felt responsible for sustaining and increasing the beauty of the world.