This is the thirty year anniversary edition of the book (2006 rather than 1976) so it contains a lot of clarifications where he found there were misunderstandings. It also contains some corrections where he decided that he was either wrong or off target. He also mentions areas where other discoveries &amp; papers took his work even further. I think I found these the most enjoyable. It's great to see science in progress. He also added a few extra chapters that were fantastic.Of course, the main reason to read this book is to read the origin of the word"Meme"which Dawkins created &amp; loosed on the world in this book. I love origin stories.This is the third book that I've read written &amp; narrated by Dawkins. I liked it better than his autobiography, but not quite as much asThe God Delusion. I'm not an evolutionary biologist, so some of it went into more depth than I appreciated. It was always interesting &amp; easy to understand, though. That he could make such complex topics so easily digested by a layman says a lot about both his ability as a writer &amp; his knowledge of the subject.His primary point is that evolution is about gene survival. We &amp; other living beings are just the vehicles that the genes build to perpetuate themselves. He makes it very clear throughout the book that when he ascribes words such as 'selfish' to behavior that he is putting the behavior in human terms for ease of communication. When he didn't, he used math to show his point, but he didn't do a lot of that &amp; it was always easy to follow even when the points were counter-intuitive. There were a fair few of those.One example is thePrisoner's Dilemmaproblem &amp; how it relates to selfishness. He spent quite a bit of time on this &amp; even provided the results of several computer simulations done later by colleagues that prove out &amp; explain the differences in iterated games versus single games. Wow. It really explains a lot about symbiosis, herd/group, &amp; even cuckoos' behavior.I'm just plain impressed by this man &amp; his thought processes, but I'm not sure if I'll read any more of his books. He mentions where he goes into more detail in other books &amp; papers throughout this edition of this book, but he covers enough ofThe Extended Phenotype: The Long Reach of the Genefor me here, I think. Maybe not. It's an intriguing subject. Perhaps if I come across the audio version I'll succumb to temptation. He &amp; Lalla Ward do a great job of narrating &amp; the ideas are fascinating.It's amazing just how complex processes can arise out of such simple objects working in groups. Of course, there's been a LOT of time &amp; trial &amp; error. Statistically it makes sense. Dawkins has seen to that. Using his thoughts as a baseline for alien life is even more fascinating. I hope I live to see if his theories are born out.Of course, I recommend this highly. Definitely get this edition, if you can. If you've only read the first edition, get &amp; read this one. It's worth it.