When I read this a couple of years ago, I loved it. I've also been at a loss to see why people had troubles liking Richard Dawkins, sure he was harsh sometimes in debates, but mostly I found him intellectually honest.It's higly ironic that not even a week after I was defending my idol Dawkins against accusations of his research being biased, I find myself in some serious doubts regarding my previous respect for him.This is to the best of my memory what happened last week:My fellow beer drinker: You can't take any book written by Dawkins seriously since he's an agressive ranting atheist.Me: Wrong. You should never confuse the personal opinion a person holds with their science. If their evidence holds up it shouldn't matter. I wouldn't care if he was [searching my mind for one of the most offensive thing a person could be to me] a SEXIST, that wouldn't change my view of his research. They are two seperate things.Fellow (male) beer drinker nods and looks slightly perplexed that I, a raging feminist, would defend anyone who was a sexist.Me vs. MFBD: 1-0And then I read this today:Scientific Americanand this:Blag hagIf you don't feel you have the time to read the articles this is a short summary of what happened:(view spoiler)[The whole elevator thing is quite simple, a man hit on a woman at a atheist conference in a situation that she felt was less than comfortable (in an elevator in the middle of the night), she said no and they both moved on. She then mentioned the situation (with no names) in a vlog post. In her video she was not attacking the guy just saying that for future reference she did not enjoy being suggested in an elevator after a long day of talking about sexism, she just advised people that she would not be favourable for any such propositions.And then suddenly all these men got very angry and said she was a feminazi and that someone should actually rape her at the next conference. That's where the actual sexism enters in my opinion. The guy in the elevator was just clumsy and perhaps a bit creepy, and that is in my mind all she said. She wasn't saying anything in the video about him being a patriarchial opressor, just that maybe he should reconsider his game strategy. And for this she gets the response that she's should be punished and raped! That is most certainly sexism.Into this debate enters Richard Dawkins, the guru of the sceptics movement, and chastises the woman in question for mentioning silly stuff such as choosing to reject offers in late night elevators, when there are other women being actually raped all around the world. Logic? Who needs it!(hide spoiler)]So apparently I was closer to the truth then I would've guessed. It doesn't change my views on Dawkins's general theories about genes as such, overall they appear sound and generally supported. However I can't help the nagging thoughts in the back of my head, that maybe some of the parts on sex and gender in the book might have been tainted by his private views on women (i.e. that women shouldn't really care about gender roles unless she's being physically assulted. I mean who cares about sexism if you're not being mutulated? Or a higher pay for that matter?).So, me vs. MFBD: 0-1?