The book "Out of my mind" by Sharon M. Draper has changed my view of how people view others. This book is the story of a girl who was born unable to speak, walk, write, or anything on her own. Ever since the day she's been born she's always been helped by someone,never able to do something on her, not even talk. She was always seen as the girl in the wheel cahir who couldn't do anything. So when Melody finally can do something on her, can even speak for the first time, why do people still look at her as helpless and weak?In the school Melody goes to, Spaulding Street Elementary School, she is in a goup with other with "what they call 'disabilities'." They're put in a group from ages 9-11 and they're "learning community"[pg.29:] has been together from the begining of school. But every single one of her teachers with a a exception of one has treated them as if they are babies and know nothing. Even they're classroom has been painted as if they were 4 not 9 or 11,with walls of "dozens of flowers...smiley faces", and "painted with happy bunnies, kittens, and puppies."[pg.30:]They are not little kids, so why is their classroom look like a little kids playhouse. Do people really think that they're not even smart enough to see the difference of their classrooms and others? Like, just becasue they're not as smart as others, does it mean you have to make everythin surrounding them seem as if for babies, even their learning environment?Of the teachers Ms. Billups was one of the worst, she would make them listen to "Old MacDonald Had a Farm", "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star", and "The Itsy-Bitsy Spider" every morning. I wonder what made her do that, like did she really believe that these kids even if they were 'special' weren't smart enough to understand these songs. Ms.Billups would also go over teh alphabet every single day with them, when they were third graders! This makes me wonder what kind of view society has put on these 'special' kids. Aren't they supposed to be treated the same, to teach them like they are no more different then the other students? Then why is this teacher teaching a third grade class the alphabet and making them listen to PreK songs. Does she really believe that they can listen to the same songs over and over without gettign bored, and really that these third graders haven't learned their alphabet yet. They may have bisabilities, but they are PHYSICAL ablilities, this has nothing to do with their minds and how they are able to comprehend, think, and learn.Melody proves this when she gets the computer that allows her to talk, and speak (through a computerized voice that is) what is really on her mind. The computer is set up with phrases and sentences that she can speak (through the computer). But people still don't think she's "smart", they still think she can't be "smart", that just because she has disabilites she shouldn't even be able to think or talk. Like what this girl (Clarie) in the book said,"I'm not trying to be mean--honest--but it just never occurred to me that Melody had thoughts in her head."(pg.143) This makes me wonder of how many other people out there think that, that how just beacuse a person is in a wheel cahir or has disabilities you assume that they must not be smart or even think.This book really made me wonder if people judge others too quickly. That maybe a person is in a wheel chair or has some disablity doesn't necessarily mean that they are 'not smart' or unable to do what we can. There is many people out their with disablities who has accomplished more in their life than many of us, with thos disabilities. They are still living a normal life, going to work (maybe), going to school, just living their life. Yet we still don't think of them as equal, and don't believe that they can be as accomplished as we are, when that is not true at all.I really liked this book, and thought it was just spectacular. The author really made me remember everything, and i learned so much. I would reccomend this book for all, and even though it is not really a topic we like to discuss it was different and nice to read about. :)