This is the best book that I have read inyears. It's right up there near the same plane as the very best books that I haveeverread. I had never read any book by Sharon M. Draper before this one, but I think that's about to undergo a major reversal. If she's able to even approach the incredible level that she has achieved in the making of this novel in anything else that she has done, then I want to experience it.Where do I start in describing a story of the power and magnitude that marksOut of My Mind? Melody is a fifth-grade girl who was born with cerebral palsy. Her body is crippled and she can do very little for herself. She can't even talk. She can, however,think, and oh, does she do that like no one else. Trapped inside of her speechless, mostly ineffective body is a golden mind that grasps concepts and factual information at a level nothing short of genius. Melody may look helpless to many outside observers who don't get the chance to actually come to know her, but if value is measured in terms of mental capacity for future learning and retention of what has already been taught, then Melody outshines virtually everyone she meets. She is, without exaggerating to say, a wonder.But life is never going to be easy or simple for a person with the challenges that belabor Melody every single day. Other kids who don't live the life that Melody lives can't really understand, even if theythinkthey can, and if they're not willing to take the time to look deeper and see how smart and how good Melody is in the ways that matter, then Melody will, ultimately, be the one who pays for their ignorance by not having friends. So, Melody understands "unfair". It's encoded in her genes. She knows "unfair" more intimately than most of us ever will.The plot of this book rocks back and forth, lighting embers of hope for Melody's future and then extinguishing them, giving us things to laugh about followed by scenes that will move almost any reader to tears, both of happiness and grief. It's all so hard, and so painful, yet the writing of Sharon M. Draper is somehowbeyondexpert, leading us along the novel's rocky road with unsurpassed ability. There isn't a single paragraph of Melody's story that doesn't jump up from the page with life and vigor, filled with intense relevance to our own lives, and drawing us in to care about Melody even though we know that the happy ending we wish for her is just...impossible.I have no explanation for why this book did not win the 2011 Newbery Medal, or at least a Newbery Honor.Out of My Mindis one of the deepest, strongest, most innately profound books that I have had the privilege to read in a very, very long time. It's an instant masterpiece. I could never be the same after having read it, and there's no more important remark that I could make than that.