FANTASTICThis is without a doubtone of my favorite YA Fantasy series.I do love Richelle Mead, her series Succubus Blues is also one of my favorite UF series ever.What you'll find in this series:Entertainment from beginning to end. Action, emotion, badassery, growth, adventure, VAMPIRES, fighters, excitement, suspense, intrigue, passion, love.Great plot. Brilliant story evolution, believable succession of events and excellent plot development.Fantastic characters and character development. Intelligent, brave, responsable, tough and feminine heroins that make smart choices. Hot, mysterious, loyal, intriguing, inteligent and badass male main characters. Characters than mature, learn and behave accordingly to their ages, circumstances, and life lessons.Incredible relationships. Intense and developed romance with out of this word chemistry and longing. True bounds of friendships and loyalty.Exemplary.This series has it all. I have reread it many times and I will do it again. I eat this series up!My favorite book within this series isBlood Promise(Book 4), which is one of my favorite books of all time. However, the book that truly made me a hardcore fan of the Vampire Academy wasShadow Kiss(Book 3), the final part enthralled me and trapped my heart.I do have some issues withSpirit Bound(Book 5) regarding Rose's relationship with Adrian, her thoughts and actions regarding him and Dimitri. It bothered me, and I don't really see how it was that relevant to the story. The way the relationship unfolded made little sense to me, specially because of the small time-lapse everything happened in. If we had had a much longer time interval, her feelings and thoughts would have made more sense to me.The audiobook narrator is very good. My first time with these books was by paperbacks, after that, all my rereads have been by audiobooks.I highly recommend this series, both to YA and adults, females and males.It is just great.P.S.: The movie is appallingly TERRIBLE and does an atrocious disservice to these books. It should be staked in the heart!