Recently, I said to a teacher of mine (as almost a point of pride) that I admire books that are void of sentimentality. He responded with, "Have you read Jerzy Kosinski?"No, I hadn't. So I immediately sourced a copy ofThe Painted Birdthinking, sweet, giddy-up! I've read plenty of ruthless books. I'm no wilting daisy, no stranger to pages penned by an extra sharp quill.But this book... this book ishardcore.Based at least in part on the childhood experiences of the author, this 1965 novel follows the life of a 6 year old Polish boy who is sent away by his parents at the onset of WWII. He's meant to stay with a witchy peasant woman in a far away village, but that doesn't last for long. The boy is forced to survive in an unfriendly, rural area where he is despised by everyone who sees him because of the darkness of his hair and eyes. They don't know whether to hate him because he's a gypsy, or a Jew. Either way though, he is in trouble.Written in episodes, each chapter is a story of a new set of circumstances, a new horror show, a new twisted fairy tale, unlike anything you've read before. The child witnesses and endures the worst the world has to offer at the hands of the Polish peasantry. Often I had to put it aside to let my brain rest from the relentless pummelling it was taking, let the evil images have a chance to fade, before picking it up again.This book gives voice to the horrors of war, to be sure, and in particular the Nazi brand of horrors. But what struck me most about this scathing novel is its merciless illustration of the death of innocence. The main character starts off like any child, with the naive hope that he will be reunited with his parents and be returned to a safe, comfortable life. But with each episode, another hope is extinguished, another ideal is destroyed. This boy slowly loses faith in both God and people as he realises "every one of us stands alone". And how, given his experiences, can he come to any other conclusion?The title is taken from the chapter that features Lekh, a peasant who captures birds, and has the cruel habit of painting them in bright colours before setting them free. Then he watches as the flock, who can no longer recognise the bird as one of their own, viciously attacks and kills it. The boy is undoubtedly the painted bird, who cannot be seen as belonging anywhere he goes. He's left to a mixture of his own instincts and the random, careless luck of the world, in order to survive.I don't know that I would "recommend" this book to anyone, due to its extreme nature. I know that it has been criticised for exaggerating or exploiting the terrors of the Holocaust, as well as painting the Polish peasants as sadistic, ignorant filth. But personally, I have no problem believing that such horrendous things happened, and even worse, that the innocent hearts of children were hardened into existential lumps. I think it is of utmost importance that this controversial story be read by those who dare - to show us how close we all are to walking alone, and remind us to clutch tightly to each other and our humanity, above all else.Now, who's getting sentimental here??