Growing up in Poland you couldn't escape but be exposed to Polish war movies and dramas. The war defined this country and its people, with the country being completely destroyed and around 5,6 million people dead; because the Western powers trusted Stalin the country borders also changed, with parts of eastern Poland being ceded to contemporary Ukraine and Lithuania. But the rotten top of the cake came when the country fell under the influence of the USSR, and disappeared behind the Iron Curtain for over half a century. However, Polish people are stubborn: the 1980 Solidarity led to the creation of the Soviet's block first trade union, and the subsequent protests formed a wave of reactions throughout Europe, which eventually led to countries breaking away from the Soviet sphere of influence and gaining independence.So what did the Polish people do during all these grim years? And they were grim all right: imagine walking into a store and seeing nothing, literally nothing on its shelves - and then going into another one and seeing empty shelves again, and in another one, and another. Food stamps were not welfare - number of goods one could purchase was limited, with most not being available at all. The black market flourished for those who could afford it, but mostly people stood in long queues to buy whatever was available at the moment. Everything was scarce.[image error]This is not Black Friday but a normal Polish week in the 70's and 80's.You'd be surprised to hear that culturally the country wasn't doing so bad. It was during this time that it produced classic motion pictures and dramas, most of which are highly regarded to this day for their witty social humor and relentless mocking and parodying of the opressive regime, in particular its absurd bureaucracy. It was the time when science fiction could be used as political commentary in thin disguise, and so was music. With severe limits imposed on them, people sought to express themselves and to great effect - even in sports. In 1974 FIFA World Cup Poland got the third place (which is practically unbelieveable when you look at the contemporary face of Polish football) after losing 0:1 to West Germany in a dramatic match - the game was goalless for 76 minutes as both teams struggled on the rain soaked field.The war also made an impact on Polish entertainment. Two of the most popular and enduring Polish TV series have both been about it: The first,More Than Life At Stakewas a suspenseful espionage drama about a Polish double agent in the Abwehr in occupied Poland, which cleared the streets when it aired as people were rushing to those who had a television set to not miss an episode; the second,Four tank-men and a dogwas a whimsical series about the adventures of a T-34 tank crew and their dog in the Polish army. It was largely a pro-Soviet propaganda piece, made to whitewash the Soviets but people loved it - and still do.How I Unleashed World War IIis a series of three comic films about a Polish soldier who is convinced that by an incredible strain of coincidences he has started the second World War and wants to undo it, constantly getting himself into trouble on different theaters of war. The movies poke fun at the German soldiers relentlessly and brought some joy to people of the country which suffered so much at their hands. And it is these whimsical films that I was reminded of when I readCity of Thieves. David Benioff is an estabilished American screenwriter who wrote screenplays for the HBO adaptation ofGame of Thronesand movies such asTroyandX-Men Origins: Wolverine.City of Thievesis purpotedly based on true experiences of his grandfather during the siege of Leningrad.Leningrand is now namedSaint Petersburg, and is located near the Gulf of Finland in northwestern Russia. It is the second largest city in the country with over five million inhabitans, and has formerly served as the capital of the Russian Empire. All great Russian revolutions of the early 20th century took place there - the Revolution of 1905, the February Revolution and the pivotal Russian Revolution of 1917 which abolished Nicholas II and ended the Russian Empire and led to the creation of the Soviet Union. After Lenin's death the city was renamed "Leningrad" to honor him; the name was changed to Saint Petersburg in 1991. Today it is an important Baltic port and a cultural center - the place of birth of Dmitri Shostakovich, Vladmir Nabokov and Ayn Rand, the setting ofCrime and Punishment. Through its middle flows the river Neva, and in its center sits the Winter Palace - the former residence of the Russian Monarchs, described to me by my mother as the grandest building she ever saw.The city is also the site of the deadliest siege in the history of warfare. From September 1941 to January 1944 the German army severed the last land connection. Over a million of Red Army soldiers and hundreds of thousands of civilians lost their lives due to the bombings, famine and terrible cold. In 1945 it received the Soviet honorary title of "Hero City" - an award it shares with Moscow, Odessa, Kiev and Stalingrad among others.[image error]Benioff's novel is presented as fiction, although it's more than implied that the material is at least partially biographical - with creative edits here and there - the novel's unnamed narrator lives in Los Angeles and writes "screenplays for movies with mutant superheroes", and visits his retired grandparents in Florida. He intends to write about his grandfather's experiences in Leningrad and publish them. The elder obliges: when he cannot remember certain details, he instructs his grandson to make it up - since he is a writer. What follows is a quite engrossing novel which kept me turning the page with intensity way larger that i have anticipated.You have never been so hungry; you have never been so cold.these words open the narration of Lev Beniow, who lives alone in an apartment in Leningrad. His mother and sister fled the city when it was still possible, but he refused; his father - a poet - has been captured by the NKVD, and Lev feels the obligation to defend his home from the invaders. Lev lives in severe conditions, and together with a group of friends they almost make do; one day a dead Luftwaffe pilot falls from the sky, killed not by another plane but by the extreme cold. At attempt to loot the body is spotted by the Soviet officials, and despite the fact that the punishment for looting is death Lev helps his friend (and a secret sweetheart) escape, being caught in her place. He is taken to prison where he is to await his execution, and there he meets Kolya Vlasow, a deserter from the Red Army. Kolya is everything Lev is not - cultured, witty, charming and socially refined, and quite given to bragadaccio, particularly when it comes to relations with the opposite sex.Expecting the worst, Kolya and Lev are brought before NKVD colonel Grechko, who offers them an offer they can't refuse: he will let them live if they can find a dozen eggs. Grechko needs the eggs for his daughter's wedding cake - they're the only missing ingredient. Although he and the boys both know that in Leningrad there are no eggs in Leningrad, he also knows that when put against a wall man can sometimes do what can only be described as miraculous. He has nothing to lose, while the boys have everything. While the colonel might be perceived as kind of a bastard, he is a weird sort of way a likable person: he gives the boy a waiver which will give them immunity from the Soviet soldiers, a hundred rubbles and five days to return with a dozen eggs. There is no use running away: the environment will kill them, and if it doesn't the colonel's men will hunt them down and kill them, and if they are crazy enough to try to leave the city they will be killed by the Germans.And so begins this fine yarn, which despite its relatively short length holds more than a few surprises up its sleeve. Its lenght is not a detriment - Benioff does not aim to write a historical epic about war. His screenwriting expertise will make sure that the narrative is taut and compelling, with new developments occuring quickly one after the other. Although the novel moves very swiftly, the issues it touches upon are never toned down or simplified for the sake of trying to appeal to the audience. The harshness of life in Leningrad is shown well, and the brutalities and absurdities of war (where else would two boys be sent on such a quest?) are on full display, with several brilliant set pieces which are bound to affect any reader - although the novel might at first glance seem to be adressed to young adults, the author does not shy away from the violence, of which there is a fair amount - some of it quite graphic and really effective. None of it is graphic for its own sake, and the novel never descends to a simplistic bloodbath.The main joy comes from seeing the interaction between the two main characters. Lev is a great narrator: an intelligent and opinionated young Russian, who is shy around girls and irritated and frustrated about his situation, his country and his father; Lev is very sympathetic and a great storyteller. Kolya, On the other hand, is a great jester with irresistible charms, one who never stops bragging about his abilities and accomplishments (especially when it comes to women). While Lev is a bit subdued and quiet, Kolya is often arrogant and full of himself, claiming to be an erudite expert on almost anything - from philosophy and literature to warfare and women. As they embark on their quest to find the eggs their friendship progresses, and it's a delight to see it grow. Since the novel is written by Lev's grandson, the wording does not aim to accurately reflect the way people spoke and wrote around the time: the author writes the story as a contemporary man, not one in the 1940's, but it does not take anything from the novel - I would argue that it allows the readers to immerse themselves in it better. Along their way on the quest for a dozen eggs Lev and Kolya meet many colorful characters, all of which are well developed - the author never uses pure stereotypes and cardboard cutouts, and gives weight not only to the main players but to the supporting cast as well. The sense of war and everpresent danger, is strong in this one, but so is the sense of adventure andfun, despite all the horrors and grimness. Benioff knows how to use dark humor and not sound completely cheesy or over the top, never going into the maudling and overly sentimental territory where many other writers would jump right in to squeeze the emotions out of the reader like you squeeze juice out of a lemon. The novel charms its reader, quickly weaving its spell, and suddenly we are completely captivated and unable to put the damn thing down.I had so much fun with reading this novel, which was a very pleasant surpriseWhile it is definitely not a straight account of the siege of Leningrad, I can see it as a great gateway for readers to fuel their interest about that particular place and time (and it is fascinating stuff).City of Thievesis suspenseful and engaging, with great characters and an engaging storyline. I had a marvelous time with this novel, which in its compact size managed to contain an engaging story about coming of age during the war, and all that comes with it - the harshness, cold and hunger, but also friendship, adventure and love. Great stuff!