I regret not reading David Benioff's superbCity of Thievesat an earlier date. I'm hot and cold with WWII stories, which accounts for some of my reluctance in getting this one started. Luckily, my steadfast, book-recommending friend, Josh Bragg, prompted me to pick it off my shelf and give it a read. It is both the most entertaining WWII story I've read in recent years, and the most emotionally hard-hitting. Benioff is able to bring to life his grandfather's story with enough playful fudging of the facts (as per his grandfather's request) that it blurs the line between fiction and nonfiction, but reads most like a stunning novel.City of Thievesintroduces the reader to 17 year-old narrator Lev Beniov, a jewish man living in Leningrad during the Nazi siege. Lev is timid, golden-hearted, and on a quest to find his first sexual experience amidst freezing temps and famine. When Lev is arrested for looting the corpse of a Nazi paratrooper, he is sent on a mission with 20 year-old Kolya to retrieve a dozen eggs for the wedding cake of a colonel's daughter. The seemingly silly premise encapsulates the charm of the novel: it mixes the life and death stakes of the war with the absurd and hilarious.The novel's beating heart is its two leads and their relationship. Kolya's boisterous, crude, and relentlessly upbeat attitude provides the perfect foil to Lev's hesitant, unsure teenage lead. I was often put in stitches by Kolya's off-colour remarks and quips, and Benioff is able to turn a scene from despair to delight with remarkable skill. This ability to go from the harsh realities of war to pure black comedy kept me hooked on this book page after page, and dealt with many of my complaints about WWII stories without every losing their edge. The book also deftly manages to contrast the friends' locker-room talk with a strong, emotionally resonant, male relationship.Benioff's writing also surprised me. This book sat on my shelf and I referred to it as "the one by the guy who's the show-runner forGame of Thrones." Unfortunately, this generalization does Benioff a great disservice as he realizes his vision and characters with readable, strong prose, and superb dialogue. There are many books in which characters are hungry, cold, happy, or sad, but it is rare the book in which those emotions are felt by the reader. Benioff had me feeling to bone-chill of Russia in winter, the elation of the leads, the hunger of its protagonists, and the tragedy of of war. I loveGame of Thrones, but Benioff would do well to return to the publishing world for a few more books!This book snuck up on me. It's a charming, enthralling, hilarious, and heartfelt read. I tried to space out my readings to savour Benioff's prose or to spend a bit more time with the characters. The ending manages to be both heart wrenching and uplifting, and stuck the landing far better than I had imagined it would. Again, thanks to Josh Bragg for this recommendation and I hope it soon finds its way into many of your hands!