"I was half asleep but I smiled. In spite of all his irritating qualities, I couldn't help liking a man who despised a fictional character with such passion.""There isn't any good news. Just because there's bad news doesn't mean there's good news, too."I loved this book. So much. In fact, I'm in real danger of descending into embarrassing fangirl babble and I really don't want to put you through that. This book deserves so much more than my barely coherent praise I want to heap on top of its modest, unassuming frame. So before I proceed any further I want to draw your attention to two excellent reviews that made me want to pick upCity of Thievesand read it in the first place --MaciekandSteve. Thank you gentlemen.During my university days, I majored in 20th century military history. To say I was vastly outnumbered by my male classmates would be an understatement. I was -- for a time anyway -- a curious anomaly, one who was more often humored and patronized, than taken seriously. While my interests would eventually bring me to a focus on Ireland and the IRA, I did spend a fair amount of time up to my eyeballs in everything World War II. But with a subject so vast and sprawling you have to pick your concentration or you'll walk away from it having learned nothing of value. So I chose the Western Front because that's mainly where my countrymen fought and bled and died.But it was so easy to become distracted by this WHOLE OTHER FRONT -- the Eastern Front -- where soldiers and civilians were dying by themillions. While I did my due diligence to keep my attention fixated on the Battles of Britain and the Atlantic, Dieppe and Normandy, I couldn't shake the desire to read more about the 900 day siege of Leningrad -- the starvation, the desperation, the cannibalism. Conditions on every front were a nightmare tableau of death and destruction, but the Eastern Front had the added torture of the bitter, savage cold. Bullets, bombs, starvation were one thing -- that frigid biting air able to cut a man in half and take his fingers and toes on a whim was something else.InCity of Thieves, Benioff transports us to the Eastern Front, into the frozen streets of Leningrad in the midst of the German's siege. Here we meet two boys -- Lev, 17 and Kolya, 19. Strangers to one another when the story begins, Lev and Kolya will have just one week filled with peril, misadventure, terror, laughter and tears to forge a bond that normally would take decades. The boys do not have decades however. They have just one week. And what a week it will be.Lev is the quiet, shy virgin Jew, often serious but with a desire to uncover in himself some level of courage and charisma, to perhaps get a pretty girl to notice him. Kolya, the older of the two, is brash and boisterous, filled with a lust for life and for any pretty girl he can get his hands on. Upon meeting Lev he feels it is his duty to help the hapless virgin find his way into the arms of an accommodating lover. It won't be easy.The two boys have also been tasked by a high-ranking military officer to head behind enemy lines in search of a dozen eggs. Where does one even begin to look for luscious eggs in the land of the freezing and starving, where sane people are eating book glue for protein and the insane have started to eat each other?This book is about the horrors of war, and yes, sad and horrific things do happen. But this is mostly ajoyfulnovel filled with heart and humor. I laughed many, many times at Kolya's never-ending antics and stream of profanities, his perpetual teasing of Lev and his insatiable lusty appetites even in the face of war and death.Big spoiler under tag:(view spoiler)[WHY DO AUTHORS LOVE TO MAKE YOU FALL IN LOVE WITH CHARACTERS JUST SO THEY CAN KILL THEM?! Argghhhh! So angry and heartbroken. I should have seen Kolya's death coming a mile away. He was just too full of life and love to survive to the end of the book. I guess Benioff could not resist breaking our reader hearts. Damn you Benioff!!! ::sob::(hide spoiler)]Adding to the utter enjoyment of this book was having it read aloud by actorRon Perlman. Ron! Where have you been my whole life? If it were only possible, I would make you read all of my books for me from now on. You bring depth and nuance to this story with every breath, every lilt of Russian. You are the man.Read this book. Or even better, listen to it. It's wonderful.