"You who read me, are You sure of understanding my language?"Borges would have been the first to point out that an answer in the affirmative to his own question would be a likely sign that the reader indeed had understood nothing of any importance. So I won't make any claims. I did however experience something approaching perfect reading pleasure, - fully aware that perfection is unlikely to be approved by Borges - being too static, unchangeable, and definitive.Halfway through the essay collection, I became acutely conscious of knowing the stories already, but I was not able to recall whether I had read them before, or just heard about them in other essay collections. It left me in the dreamlike, surreal state of mind that Borges enjoys evoking - blurring the lines between reality and literature, proving over and over again that storytelling is the origin of humankind as a thinking species.Are we real? Or are we just part of a giant narrative, told in infinite volumes of books in a labyrinthine library which contains us, the universe and all our imagination, including our deities?Moving from one fictional character to the next (Don Quixote, Hamlet, Dante in his fictional self) and questioning our right to claim more authenticity than these immortal characters, Borges involves his own identity as a person and as a writer in the narrative process, and makes a distinction between what Borges - the person - and Borges - the writer of mythical dimensions - represents, without being sure where one identity ends and the other begins:"I do not know which of us has written this page."Why are readers confused when they realise that characters in books turn into readers of the same book, like Don Quixote in the second part of the Cervantes' masterpiece? - Borges claims it disturbs our sense of reality. We might be part of a story ourselves, a story about a character reading about reading, and reflecting on how to establish an objective identity.If our universe is a great labyrinthine library containing all the stories of the world, then time and space are meaningless measurements of life. We can be in different stories at the same time, and change pattern, plot and character in case we are not happy with the thread we are following at the moment:"Next time I kill you", replied Scharlach, "I promise you that labyrinth, consisting of a single line which is invisible and unceasing."Why did I like this collection so much? Why did it give me such a deep, deep sense of satisfaction, despite being obscure, incoherent, and slightly surreal?I think the answer is that to me, the world is a library, and Borges gave me the narrative to prove that my reading and dreaming self is just as real as the self that is busy with everyday chores. I have always felt at home in books in a way that I rarely feel at home in the world.Within Borges' labyrinth, I found my true home address.Moving from Dante and Kafka over Shakespeare to Cervantes feels natural and logical to me, and I gather that I am among old friends. I identify strongly with the idea of seeing the world as an infinite number of story fragments, all available to be reinterpreted by me, the reader. I am part of the story as well, changing the narrative with my existence in time, just like Borges himself:"Time is the substance I am made of. Time is a river which sweeps me along, but I am the river; it is a tiger which destroys me, but I am the tiger; it is a fire which consumes me, but I am the fire. The world, unfortunately, is real; I, unfortunately, am Borges."I was Borges too, for a short time, while I read his words. And it swept me away!