Personally, I prefer my ARC cover. You like? :)[image error]August has always known that he's different. But he's learned to long accept that people will always stare at his face, and there's nothing he can do about it. So why not just live life the best way possible? With a loving family always by his side, although originally not at all happy about starting school, he soon starts to warm to the idea. Having been home-schooled for many years he is now more vulnerable than ever.Like any person that's a new student, August faces many mixed reactions from fellow students. Some are welcoming like Summers and Jack. Others not so much like Henry and Julian. But add to that something which will make you definitely stand out - and not in a positive way - and you are bound to have a rough few days. I just want to say this straight out. If I was August, heck no would I be brave enough to walk through those gates. He is just ten years old but his sensibility, ability to laugh at himself and his courage just blew me away. I think he is such a wonderful human being. I can't gush enough about him.What I particularly love about the book is how we are able to see August through others too. Of course this is Augusts journey, but it's interesting to see how others see him. Via, his sister, is the one I found most interesting. She's a teenager and at that age where she is still discovering new things about herself day by day. And although she adores her brother, she's grown up learning never to complain, to never want or expect anything from her parents. She's always known that August is first priority since her parents are so over -protective over him, but little by little, it's clear that she's starting to grow a little resentful. And she hates herself for it, because she loves her family so much.What really shined for me was not just August himself, but his loving tight - knit family. The kind that you see in cartoons or children's books. The bedtime stories, the hugs and kisses. It's so lovely to just watch from afar and see how supportive and sweet they are towards one another.And hey, when we get to the last few pages it's just full on inspiring. Some very touching, quotable moments there. ;)