This book is wonderful. I am very glad to have read this novel. I started reading this out loud to my daughter, but she wasn't having it. I plan to read this to her when she is older, because of her father.Story time: Once upon a time there was this man named Lance Corporal Cracknell. His platoon or battalion (not sure which it was) was stationed out in Afghanistan and they were doing their daily hump. While walking, third in line, he steps on an explosive. KABOOM. Luckily, he didn't die, because the bomb partiality detonated. But he was injured and is now, again luckily, only a below the knee amputee. Side note: he is really cool about the leg injury. Don't worry about it. He has a nickname for his nub and says it is from a shark bite. Who knew he could be so clever when he doesn't bother me while reading.This is how I sort of relate to this novel. I felt sort of in Via's shoes. Always spotting people who look at my husband. His prosthetic has an middle finger sticker on it, but that is besides the point. Everyone stares. He tries or maybe he is oblivious to it now, but I notice. Little kids point and ask their parents about it all the time. It is pretty funny. I treat him as I would treat anyone else, even when he plays the pity game. I might be a little bit meaner. He is ordinary. A lot of people think he is extraordinary, because he does everything a two legged person would do. Like I said he is ordinary.So, Wonder is about a August who has a genetic anomaly, which caused his face to be underdeveloped in the womb. August goes through multiple surgeries to help him survive, thank goodness, but his face isn't what we call "normal". (I will talk about that later and I will definitely rant and rave about it. Sorry, not sorry.) During his 5th grade year he attends a private school and that is where I leave off for you to read for yourself.I think all young kids should read this novel, because 1) teaches sympathy, 2) Stop bullying for someone who doesn't look or act the same, 3) Appreciate others, 4) Anyone and everyone has problems (either big or small) who needs a helping hand, an act of kindness to get through the day, and 5) the world is cruel and not everyone is going to accept who you are at times, but there are plenty of people who will be behind you. Those are the messages I found in the book.This is where I am going to rant and rave about the word "normal" and beauty. Our society has this ideal image of what beautiful is. If you don't act, dress, and look a certain way you are not beautiful. Someone explain to me then why do we all look different? No one looks that certain way. I definitely don't. How can anyone find me beautiful. Baffles me that we can call someone ugly, because everyone is beautiful no matter what you wear or look like. So, this normal thing what is normal anyways. Again everyone is different. Everyone has different genes (besides identical twins). No one is normal. The only normality is that we are all homo sapiens. We shouldn't be judging people, because they don't look the same. We should be finding common ground, looking into their personalities to see if we click internally. How can we judge if someone is a good fit by looking at physical features? I hate how cruel our world is and how we can only look at physical features. You can be the cutest/hottest/sexiest person in the world, but have the ugliest personality. Therefore turning you into someone I just don't get along with.I also felt relatable to the parents in this book. I want to shield my daughter from the mean people in the world, like how August's parents want to protect him from cruel words and bullying. No one should be bullied for what they look like. But, I too want to strengthen my daughter for the cruel outside world. You can only do that with experience. Throwing them to the lions and helping them cope. Therefore, I understand how the parents felt torn apart by how to protect August the best way. Okay, my daughter is going to be two. Granted, there isn't much experience, but she is really shy. I try to throw her in social situations. Also, if there are mean parents while she is growing up. I will scream at someone.So, I cried in the beginning of the book due to sadness and worry. I cried at the end of the book because I was happy. I loved the characters. Must read for all. I might add more to this review, but it is getting late and I am sleepy. Take aways: Be kind to everyone. Stop the hate. My precept: If you fall, just dust the dirt off and jump back on.