Wow! I am so glad that I finally got around to listening to this story. 'Wonder' had been sitting on my TBR list for a really long time, but I had been waiting for a time to listen to it with my daughters. That time finally arrived last weekend, when we had to spend a full day in the car on a trip.I had read many great reviews for this book, so I had really high hopes going into it. In fact, I was worried that I would be disappointed, as I often am with a book that is surrounded by so much hype. However, I can say that this book did not let me down in any way. In fact, it exceeded every expectation that I had. I absolutely loved this story!'Wonder' tells the story of a young boy, August Pullman aka "Auggie", who is going to begin attending school for the first time ever. Auggie has been homeschooled for years by his mother because he was born with severe facial deformities, requiring multiple operations over the course of his young life. Despite the myriad of surgeries that he has undergone, he still lives with significant facial disfigurement. Now, Auggie will be entering the fifth grade at Beecher Prep.Told from multiple POVs, this book provides a thorough account of Auggie's experiences. I was especially impressed with the raw honesty of his sister's POV. Growing up with Auggie wasn't easy, as she always came second to his needs. She struggled with resentment and guilt over having those feelings, as she truly loved her brother but craved the attention of her parents also.Auggie's POV was also brutally honest. He was well aware of how other people viewed him. Yet, no amount of awareness can make a child immune to the stares and cruel words. His story was heartbreaking, but inspiring.It was also easy to relate to the POVs of others, including Jack, the boy who befriends Auggie at school. Although some of his actions were upsetting, he was only human. I had to remind myself that he was just a young boy, battling his own insecurities and trying to fit in at a very impressionable age. Even good people do bad things sometimes.As a parent, I both admired and sympathized with Auggie's mother. My heart went out to her. I could only imagine how difficult it would be to enroll your child into school, wanting to provide as normal a life as possible, while also wanting to shelter and protect him. I don't know what I would've done in her shoes.Not surprisingly, this was an incredibly emotional story. At times, it was downright depressing. However, I couldn't help but fall in love with Auggie and his resilience. This story broke my heart, but it also inspired me.Most importantly, this story will make you reflect on your views and behaviors. This story highlights the cruelty of people's actions, bred from ignorance and fear. Never have I read a story that so effectively prompts readers to examine the impact of their actions and words. For children, this was a wonderful lesson in empathy.This book prompted some thoughtful discussion with my daughters (5 and 10) about bullying and the "golden rule". Although some of the story went over the head of my 5 year-old, who was primarily hung-up on the hilarity of the "farting nurse", my 10 year-old didn't miss a beat. I have no doubt that this story will stick with her and make her more considerate and empathetic toward other children.'Wonder' is the type of book that should be required reading in schools and I'm glad to hear that it is in some schools already. Just like 'The Diary of a Young Girl' (Anne Frank's Diary), this book is a book that guides you to be a better, more thoughtful, person. It is beautiful and engaging. No doubt about it, this book left it's mark on me. I highly recommend this book to everyone, young and old!Check out more of my reviews atwww.bookaddicthaven.com