What a wonderful story!My favorite character, aside from the kids, is Venice herself. Cornelia Funke has weaved her story so brilliantly in a gorgeous setting, describing the city as if it had its own personality. I think the story wouldn't be as awesome if it were set somewhere else. The mystery that is Venice, the beauty that is Venice... it took my breath away more than once. I also adore the simple illustrations that began each chapter, allowing us a glimpse of the wonderful world these kids live in.Ah, the kids. My favorite out of the children has to be Prosper. I imagine him to be this sort-of emo kid who doesn't talk much but has very sharp wits and cares for his brother with his life. Um, maybe the emo part is not very cool, but I love him anyway. And what kind of name is Prosper? It sounds just splendid on your lips, doesn't it? I bet my Chinese grandparents would love that name.The story itself is spellbinding, for me. I love to imagine how it would be, living in an abandoned movie theater with a bunch of friends. I imagined it a bit like August Rush and his hideout. Cornelia Funke has also created some action scenes that made my heart rush and my eyes read several lines at once, just because I couldn't wait to find out what would happen next.Truly, though, the gold nugget lies with the story's characters. Victor the detective with his kindness and two pet tortoises, Ida the quirky bachelorette, and of course the Thief Lord himself, Scipio. Beautiful characters, with fun personalities.The only problem that I sort of have with the book is the near ending, where the plot twist happens. The fantasy part was a bit out of tune with the rest of the book. I also didn't really like how Barbarossa got whatever he wanted--I'm a bit old fashioned, I think villains should be punished :pBut that said, the book managed to keep me up until 5.30 in the morning, and hopefully I'll dream of Venice tonight. How I long to run my fingers across the stone walls that hold so many stories! How I long to gaze at the proud winged lions that keep the city safe! How... strange that I am writing like this.