The Thief Lord, by Cornelia Funke, is a fantasy novel about a two orphaned kids. After being told Prosper, a boy around twelve years of age, and his younger brother, Bo, were going to be separated through adoption, they run away to Venice, Italy. Nearing winter, Prosper believed he would have to turn themselves in to save his little brother, who was ill. Luckily, the boys were saved by a young girl, with the nickname Hornet. She brought them to her hideout, which held two more boys. Their leader Scipio, the Thief Lord, does what he says he's best at, and keeps the children safe by stealing and selling. Little did the children know that their lives would change forever after being offered five million lire for stealing something sentimental for an elderly man. With this, the adventure began. The children learn the dark truth of the Thief Lord, and how he came to be, and they find something powerful that will change their lives forever.The plot of the novel was well thought out. You have this group of kids, and at first you don't know where the story is going. Then this one little thing happens that changes the whole book, from the children having a pretty simple and quiet life, to much running and excitement. As the novel moves forward, you begin to understand that the characters are stuck making a very important decision: will you do everything in your power to keep yourself safe and out of trouble, or are you willing to give up your childhood for the ones you love, and to keep THEM safe. "Do you sometimes wish you were grown- up?" was the question Prosper often asked. Would he be willing to give everything up to stay with his brother? This novel teaches you that there's more to life than wanting good for yourself, and if you only want for yourself, there won't be much good at all. It's about others, because they're the ones that keep life going. There is always another reason to keep going.The author, Cornelia Funke, did an amazing job writing this novel. She knew just when to add little hints to the story to pull you in, and to keep you wanting more. For example, when you first meet Scipio, the Thief Lord, you don't know anything about him. He's a mystery. You begin to wonder why he's protecting these children and how he can possibly make so much money stealing being only a kid. Funke, slowly unfolding the truth, makes it so it is absolutely impossible to put the book down. She brings magic to Venice, and life to the characters. In opinion, I believe that Funke's style of writing is brilliant. She chooses exactly the right words, and she puts them in a way that makes you feel as if the book is coming alive.