I found this book at the public library with my girlfriend and I hadn't read anything in a long time so this was a sort of reunion with the world of books.The cover and the title made me hope for many fun and exciting scenes and plots, and I was very shocked to see that it delivered, with so much more than that.This book is a twisting unraveling adventure from beginning to end about two young boys who have run away to Venice, Italy to escape being separated by their guardians. They meet a group of street children who take them in, and every character is connected and holds heavy weights of purpose throughout the story. There are so many intense surprises, changes, and moments, all with great cleverness and well-placed humor. The descriptions had me in Venice running alongside of these children. Another interesting thing is the point of view shifting, that kept it very fresh and interesting to see the inner-workings of different characters at different crucial points. I could not stop reading this book because I 'had' to know what happened next after every page.The only sad part of this book to me is the ending. It was maybe okay, but overall it was a letdown for me. There is an introduced element of magic that does not really blend with the almost entire book before it, and even though I can excuse that part because it was still interesting, I really didn't like how prevalent the character of Barbarossa became. To me he was not a main character, and yet he stepped in, ruined everything for the characters, and for the ending. I liked the idea of The Thief Lord's impulsive change to his fate, but maybe it could have happened a different way. I just really hated that character Barbarossa. One of the biggest reasons I did not like him is because the story ends with him! As I read, I was thinking of so many cool ways the book could end, but instead it tarnishes the name of one of the most interesting characters, and even the title of the book. I was so happy with the story, and this whole section left a distaste in my mouth which is bad when you loved 90% of it. It was one of those too good to be true kind of reads where you are so anxious for it to not get ruined, and then it does. At least with this book in particular it was still worth it to me, and I would still recommend it to anyone. It is an in-depth imaginative story that also explores youth and adulthood at the same time. I wish I could give it 5 stars.