I feel like this book kind of ruined my life, in that I know that nothing I ever read from here on out will ever be as good. Like an addict's first hit of their poison of choice, nothing will ever be this good again. That makes me sad, but knowing that now, I'd still read it. It was just. Wow. Thank you so much for ruining my life forever, Clive Barker, you're actually the best.I've been recommending it to everybody I encounter, from friends to strangers in my literature classes, but I can't explain to people what it's really about without ruining it or making it sound weird as fuck. How do you explain Pie 'Oh' Pah to people? How do you explain the dominions without making it sound like a bad scifi film (which it could not be further from)? I just keep sobbing and telling people "you have to read it, just please, you have to read it."It's so massive and complex. 800+ pages is pretty hefty, but the sheer scale and amount of things that actually happen in those 800 pages consumed my entire life, and made me feel as though I'd just finished reading a trilogy. The plot keeps you guessing, there's twists and turns at every corner, and every single sentence has purpose and a hidden meaning. Some twists you see coming if you pay close attention, others blind-side you out of nowhere. It is just so, so well written.I just. I can't even put together a coherent or intelligent review of this novel, so blown is my mind by every last word it contains. The entire time I was reading it, I just kept thinking, "what the fuck even is Clive Barker? How does he exist?" and I still have no idea. The sheer scale, the characters, the world building, the implied messages, just everything is incredible. Fuck. Whatever Barker's on, I want some too.I don't know. Just read this book. The first 100 or so pages are scene setting - super important, but a little slow - and then shit hits the fan, so don't be a dickhead and put it down in that first section. Give it a chance to ruin your life too. It's a beautiful thing.