Francine Rivers has done it again. This is my third from the author. Her books show us God through the characters, their faith and their lives instead of the other way around. Ultimately, it's a story about God, shown through characters that you fall in love with and care deeply for. Just like any other of her books, no words can describe it, God's love is very present and overwhelming!So many write this, but it's true, no review I could write would give justice to how great this book is.The characters are written so well and the way they changed was masterfully done - subtle changes to a personality, yet over time you notice big differences, just as it so often happens in real life. Both in characters who are turning to good and those who are going in the opposite direction. The storytelling flows naturally and is never too slow or too fast.Reading the New Testament after the gospels, especially all the letters, will be quite different now, because this book really puts you in that time, shows you how people lived in a very real way. Though I knew Christians were being persecuted and the idea of those times, this book really gives an in depth look into how it was and makes me want to reread all of the letters of the New Testament right now.I really admire the author for writing about such things that are hard to write about and not shying away from making it real, even when reality is brutal and harsh. It had been a long time since I read a book that kept me hooked all the way through and kept me thinking about it and wanting to get back to the story even when I wasn't able to. Usually I listen to music when I'm reading and sometimes I multitask, but with this, I sat in silence and just read.I think it goes without saying that this is my favorite author and has been since I first picked up one of her books. :)God has blessed Mrs. Rivers with a gift of writing the truth, and I pray that she is able to continue putting out stories that point readers to God and His Word in such a strong way.