I didn't think I should write a review owing to the fact that more than 1000s of reviews were written as to how awesome this book is but I had to point out and pour my heart out about so many things that I couldn't resist myself.In the present day context, where women are being treated better than in the past, we come across books with female protagonists being entirely SPINELESS, super weak and helpless.But this book, written around 1985, was able to really highlight the fact that women are not effing dumb little birds. I am not trying to be a 'ranting' feminist or anything but it really bothers me, how women are portrayed in books these days. They piss the shit out of me even. That's why it's surprises me how a book written by MAN in the 80's could make such a beautiful iron hearted woman when these days women writers still write their female characters in a weak vulnerable way.I am not saying all women need be strong or anything like that. What I mean is it would be nice to have protagonists like this in a few popular books. (I am not talking about dysopia. It's the NA genre where I see the trend of doormats.)Tracy is this women who is framed by mafia gang(who cause the death of her Mother) for a crime she hadn't done. She is then sent to jail and encounters the worst things any woman can ever encounter. The phrase'Living hell'aptly describes her life in prison. She is determined to avenge herself on those who took away her happy life. But all the events convert her into a con woman, rather a woman ROBIN HOOD. She steals from the people who are greedy and obtain their wealth through wrong means.I MEAN ISN'T THAT A GOOD ENOUGH REASON TO READ THIS BOOK?Every single con in this book is just enough to make u want to go do the gangnam style in your school canteen,while everyone watches you. It was So unpredictable, exciting and original! She is smart, snarky and BRAVE. She is a woman I want to be. I just fell in love with her more than I did with Jeff (but my love for Tracy comes with ADMIRATION so all of u can stop thinking what u are!)This book was really long but I was so sad when it ended Sydney Sheldon just writes book so damn well that I don't care if it never ended! I would still go on reading and reading!The story line was so well sequenced, I was so surprised that such a book could even exist. Everything made sense, I for one who takes a little more time than anyone else to understand the logic behind a con understood it with so much ease!I wouldn't really recommend this book if you are a person who enjoys drama and romance in plots, this book hardly has any of those. But its definitely worth a try!So this book on the whole