Michael Henchard an itinerant, young, annoyed farm worker, walking with quiet wife Susan, infant daughter Elizabeth -Jane, looking for employment, the time, the early 1830's, in southern England, after an exhausting journey they reach a country fair, in a small village, enter a crowded tent, with dubious humans, serving alcohol, he imbibes vigorously, (a weakness that will cause much trouble, and haunt him the rest of his life) soon inebriated, the highly distressed man, in a stupor, sells Susan to an unknown sailor named Newson, what began as a joke reaches an unforeseen conclusion. In the morning sober, and very ashamed, he seeks his wife and daughter everywhere, but they have left the area and the nation...Almost twenty years later, a drastic change, this Mr.Henchard is now the influential Mayor of Casterbridge (Dorchester) , a successful businessman in the corn and hay trade, only a few miles from his crime, a secret that still causes him much pain and suffering, he has vowed and kept this oath, not to partake any intoxicating beverages for 21 years, his age during the scandalous incident. Recently hiring the bright, young, reluctant, affable Mr. Donald Farfrae, from Scotland, with a vague dream of going to America, to pursue his fortune there, but after a protracted , difficult negotiation, on the road out of town, Henchard, persuades Farfrae to stay, he runs the business better than the owner. Michael has it all, a beautiful , girlfriend, Lucetta Templeman, too, from an impoverished family, on the island of Jersey, he has compromised, but promises will wed, the eager woman, she helped him back to health when the mayor, became dangerously ill there, nurses fall in love with their needy patients regularly . Yet life has frequent complications, the smooth voyage of his career hits a reef, his long suspected dead wife Susan returns, she also hides a deep secret, bringing his daughter Elizabeth-Jane, too...what to do? The respected mayor of Casterbridge, a widower he says, will quietly marry his wife again, for appearance sake... the townsmen are flabbergasted, a poor, sickly, uneducated woman, with a grown daughter, a stranger, Mr.Henchard, could have any single woman, from a good family, in the city, later Mr. Farfrae and shy Miss Elizabeth-Jane, start to look at each other, both with kind eyes . A major novel from the always interesting writer, Thomas Hardy, dark waters may flow through these pages , but they will take you back to a place that will engross, and this is the ultimate goal of any book.