When you hear "tragic flaw" you think of hubris, probably, or curiosity, or the desire to fuck your mom, but here's the Mayor of Casterbridge's tragic flaw: he's an asshole.He's not bad, exactly. He has a sense of justice, or at least he develops one. As the book opens, he (Michael Henchard, the Mayor of Hardy's blazing character study) auctions off his wife for five shillings in a fit of drunken pique. When he sobers up and realizes what he's done, he swears off drinking. He tries to be better. Later on in a fistfight, he ties one hand behind his back because he's bigger than the guy he's facing. This is his justice.It's also his assholery, because he started the fight in the first place, and that's what plagues him through the book: he's just adick.People don'tlikehim. He can't bring himself to be nice to folks. You know people like this, right? You probably work with one. Sometimes you come into work and you're like, "Today I'm just gonna beniceto Steve. I'm sure if I just try a little harder, we can have a good relationship." Because you know it's not that Steve actually wants everyone to hate him. He just has a really fucked up social IQ. But then you have a meeting with him and he blurts out something wicked rude, because that's how Steve is, and you're like gah, I just can't do it. Some people are just assholes. That's an interesting thing to look at, and I think Henchard is a great character. It's not gonna help you empathize with Steve better, because honestly, fuck Steve, but it's an interesting thing to write a book about.Mayoralso has Hardy's usual batch of stunningly cinematic scenes. A ruined Roman amphitheater provides several of them, as does a hay loft where Susan glows in a golden shower of wheat husks. But it wasn't Hardy's favorite. According toMichael Schmidt,he "reckoned that of all his novels the one most damaged by the exigencies of serialization wasThe Mayor of Casterbridge;the need forincidentweek after week made for too much plot." And it's true that it feels like there's some loose flesh hanging off that gruesome skeleton. It's not my favorite either. (TessandJudeare my favorites.) But Henchard is one of my favorite characters. He's one of literature's great gaping assholes, and that's quite an achievement.