IADOREDthis story!Seventeen year-old Echo Emerson used to be part of the popular crowd. Two years ago things changed. Her parents divorced, her babysitter became her step-mother, and her older brother Aires died in combat. But this is not the event that changed everything for Echo. Two years ago, an event she can't remember resulted in her waking up in the hospital two-days later, with injuries up and down both her arms. Injuries that left her with ugly scars, and a restraining order in place against her mother. Because of the "event" Echo has been mandated by the State to attend therapy sessions. She has just been assigned a new therapist, one that she shares with Noah Hutchins, resident bad-boy with a reputation of one-night-stands.Noah Hutchins has his own set of problems. Two and half years ago, he was on the honor-roll, competed in sports, and had the perfect family. Two loving parents and two-younger brothers. This was before his parents were killed in a house fire. Now Noah is separated from his little brothers. He's in one foster home, while they are in another. Noah's dream is to get his brothers back and reunite what's left of his family. He's had a string of bad luck with the homes he's been placed in. This is why he is now in court mandated therapy sessions, and on limited visitation with his younger brothers.Echo and Noah's worlds collide when Echo is assigned to tutor Noah. These two don't immediately hit it off. At first they really don't care for each other but a common goal presents itself, and they unite. Noah and Echo didn't realize they had so much in common. What follows, is a common bond over their tragedies and a growing attraction! I was justgagaover this romance! There is heat and tension but also understanding and empathy. Noah and Echo start to truly care for one another. There were so many scenes ofswoon! Weak-in-the-knees swoon! You know me, I have to share a little of at least one! Here you go:* "Keep it up Echo. I'm all about foreplay." She laughed so loudly, she slapped a hand over her mouth, yet the giggles escaped. "You are so full of yourself. You think because girls swoon over you and let you into their pants on the first try that I'll follow suit. Think again. Besides, I have your number now. Every time you try to look all dark and dangerous, I'll picture you wearing a pink striped polo, collar up, and a pair of pleated chinos." No way. I stalked over to Echo, feeling like a tiger after its prey. She backed up against the wall, but I kept up my approach. I pressed against her, feeling each sensual curve. I wanted to touch every inch of her body. Her sweet smell intoxicated me. Her eyes kept her laughter, but her smile faded as she bit her lower lip. Damn, did she have any idea what she was doing? For a girl hell-bent on keeping me away, she sure did everything to turn me on.There is a mystery behind Echo's injuries that is gradually revealed to her. What we find out is so heartbreaking and INFURIATING at the same time.BE WARNED, you are going to HATE Echo's parents and the self-centered step-mother, Ashley!! The father constantly put Ashley before Echo, even when she desperately needed him! I was overjoyed when Echo started standing up to her father and told him things he needed to hear! Don't even get me started on the mother. Still, I think the parents got off way too easy in my opinion! Trust me, you are going to shake a fist or two while reading this story because of them! Ms. McGarry did an excellent job writing these awful people.Noah and his little brothers touched my heart! What they lost and its consequences was heart-wrenching. Noahloveshis brothers. He yearns to give them the security his family once had. This is so difficult for someone his age. You can't help but empathize with his feelings of helplessness.I must congratulate Katie McGarry on her wonderful ability to make me care so much for these characters. It's so important to me that I connect with the main characters in a story, and she really made that happen. I highly recommend this story! I thought it was an amazing debut for Ms. McGarry, and I'll be reading anything else she decides to write!*Quote is taken from uncorrected ARC.Thank you to Netgalley and Harlequin Teen for allowing me to read this amazing story!