5 Stars!**RE-READ on Audible! Loved it just as much the second time around!This was not your normal romance story... In fact, normal is one of the last words you would use to describe Noah, Echo or their relationship. Echo was such a strong character. She has been through so much heartache. Not only has she lost her brother Aires, the one person who she felt loved her unconditionally, but she has had a major trauma that she has not even fully discovered. It has destroyed a lot of things important to her; her reputation, friends, art etc. Noah hasn't had it easy either. After losing both parents in a fire, he is in foster care separated from his two little brothers. He may be a sexy, tough, bad boy but there is a side of him that you will fall for! He is loving, loyal, and obviously a family centered guy. I adored him! Noah and Echo though both damaged, develop a beautiful but difficult relationship.Her eyes met mine again. "So what does this mean for us?" I lowered my forehead to hers "it means your mine."Seriously loved Noah!Echo and Noah's journey was full of heartache, healing, and most importantly acceptance. Their counselor Mrs Collins was great. She truly cared about the both of them and went above and beyond to help them. I have to say I really hated Echo's mom(view spoiler)[ not just for the terrible thing she did to Echo- though that was part of it, but her attitude when Echo finally got to confront her. She didn't even want to see her really or apologize? That woman was bat shit crazy!(hide spoiler)]her dad could be selfish at times, and very controlling, but I think he really did love Echo and want what was best for her. Now the whole Ashley situation was something else... Another character I lothed was Grace. What. A. Bitch! Just saying... Worst friend ever! Lila on the other hand was a wonderful best friend. She was supportive of Echo and didn't turn her back on her. I also loved Isaiah, him fixing Aires car was great and he was like family to Noah. Beth I didn't care for at first but she really grew on me! I especially loved the relationship between Noah and his brothers. I couldn't get through a scene with those three without crying. It was bittersweet what happens with them at the end but I think Noah realized it worked out for the best.There were many points in this book I ended up in tears. I couldn't help myself. The story touched me. It also had funny parts too. I wanted to savor this book and make it last, but that seemed impossible because I couldn't put it down! It was a truly beautiful story of pain, love, heartache, discovery, understanding and acceptance. If you haven't read this book you are missing out!!!