Noah &lt;3"Luke used to give me butterflies.Noah spawned mutant pterodactyls."This was such a sweet and heartbreaking story, with both MCs having some serious problems, but I still loved it &lt;3I am not a fan of angst and drama, and there is both here, but not too much, so I don't think it'll be a problem for anyone else :DDA few things you need to know:1. What the book is aboutA bad boy and a troubled girl are forced to work together to solve their problems, and in the meantime they manage to fall in love &lt;3Echo is trying to remember a repressed memory from the night she almost died, and Noah is doing whatever he can to get custody of his brothers.I won't say more cause you just have to read to find out :)Anyway, there are both POVs in this book, and I really love that :))I'll talk more about Noah and Echo in their sections :)2. Something about EchoShe has terrible scars on her arms, and doesn't remember how she got them. She isn't doing well and has to go to counseling with her family.She is an outcast in school ever since the "incident", her friends have given up on her and she isn't the popular one with a hot boyfriend anymore.She is desperate to find out what happened to her that night, and unwillingly makes a deal with Noah, a student she's been tutoring, to get both their files from the school counselor.3. Something about NoahHe is very mature for his age, but it isn't surprising considering everything that's happened to him.After the death of his parents, he got into foster care and of course, it didn't go well. Now he's a bad boy with a bad reputation, but all he really wants is to get his brothers in his custody the moment he turns 18.The best way to do that is to excel in school, so he starts the tutoring lessons with Echo.4. Noah and EchoI love them together &lt;3They are perfect for one another, and I loved every scene they had &lt;3Anyway, Echo's remembering was really, REALLY tough to read, and I am so glad Noah was there to support her most of the way &lt;3Noah and his family - I knew how it would end, and it's the way it's supposed to be (although a bit idyllic but oh well :D).Noah gave me butterflies like he did to Echo, he's sweet and swoony even though he's a bad boy :DLoved the scene when he meets her father and takes her to his place &lt;35. It made me cryThere were a few very sad scenes, but one hit me most, and it didn't have anything to do with Noah/Echo.It was about Noah and his little brothers, the scene when(view spoiler)[Jacob won an award for writing a story about Noah.(hide spoiler)]I actually had to take a break to compose myself and get rid of the tears XD and when I started reading the scene again, I started crying again so I had to compose again LMAO :DYes I'm a weeper, but mostly I just get misty-eyed, this was full-on crying! Gah. Anyway. I think that scene is my favorite from the book :)))6. No sex in this one, not even a fade-out :DAnd you know what? It didn't bother me AT ALL :)In fact, it would probably be icky for me to read about teenagers having sex ahahahahah so yeah, the glances, the kisses, the touches, I swooned at that and didn't even need the sex :DDDDAnd so, this is a great book, I really enjoyed it, and I can't wait to read more from this series :)))