4 StarsOverall Opinion:This was actually better than I thought it would be! I get in the mood for some teenage drama every once in a while, and I read a YA book. I'm happy I found this one in one of my trusted GR friend's favorites list! This author goes pretty deeply into these characters, and made mefeelfor both of them and root for their happiness. Both of them were dealt crappy hands, but they were able to find safety and love in each other. This is a great example of where we aren't givensteam, but there was enoughconnectionto make up for it! My biggest complaint? The ending. I don't know why an epilogue would hurt!! I'm a well known epi-ho, so there is that...Brief Summary of the Storyline:This is Echo and Noah's story. They've known who each other are for a while, but they have to actually be together when Echo is assigned to tutor Noah. They bump heads at first, but they soon find out that they both have a lot going on in their lives that other people in the school have no idea about. Echo has some mysterious scars on her arms that appeared all of a sudden and got her on the outs with the popular crowd she was with, and Noah is a relatively new kid that hangs out with a stoner crowd. They both have been assigned to work with this new clinical social worker in the school to work through their struggles, and they bond through it and fall in love. There is some family and friend drama, some past demons to work through, and some sweet moments...and they get a HFN ending.POV:This alternated between Echo and Noah's POV.Overall Pace of Story:Good. I never skimmed and I thought it flowed well.Instalove:No, but they do move pretty quickly into stronger feelings.H rating:4.5 stars. Noah. I really liked him. I appreciated how much he cared for his family.h rating:3.5 stars. Echo. I liked her, but the way she let some people treat her really bugged me (her friends and her dad).Sadness level:Low/moderate. I cried, but I never needed any tissues.Push/Pull:Yes(view spoiler)[ Both the h and H push away and pursue the relationship at times.(hide spoiler)]Heat level:Low. There are some heavy make out sessions, but they never have sex.Descriptive sex:NoSafe sex:N/AOW/OM drama:Yes(view spoiler)[The h's ex tries to get back with her.(hide spoiler)]Sex scene with OW or OM:NoCheating:NoSeparation:Yes(view spoiler)[They are separated for ~3 weeks, but there was no mention or suggestion of other partners during this time.(hide spoiler)]Possible Triggers:Yes(view spoiler)[Parent with bipolar disorder (h off page - through memories), loss of parents (H off page - through memories), loss of military brother (h off page - through memories), abusive foster homes/being separated from siblings (H off page - through memories), attempted murder of h (off page - through memories), drug use/underage drinking (H and side characters on page), H was a manwhore before h, and h is a virgin.(hide spoiler)]Closure:This is my biggest complaint about YA (and even some NA) books. I understand that they are young, and we shouldn't necessarily get a HEA with them married with kids -- but why couldn't we at least get a glimpse into their future as adults? Or going to college? Something. I would call this a HFN ending.How I got it:I got it on loan through my public library and Amazon.Safety:This one should beSafefor most safety gang readers(view spoiler)[-Does Nothave cheating-Does Nothave a descriptive sex scene with OW/OM-Doeshave both the h and H pushing away-Doeshave a short separation between the h and H-Doeshave abuse-Does Nothave OTT sad parts-Does Nothave a HEA ending(hide spoiler)]