Spoiler Free Review5 STARS out of 5Genre: YA-Mature Contemporary RomanceTHIS IS .31CENTS on Amazon U.S. 5-5-14 If you have not read this book I HIGHLY RECOMMEND IT!buy link:http://amzn.com/B00B0A5Y78Pushing the Limits was an appropriate name for this book and if i could sum up my feelings in one word it would beBREAKTHROUGH. Which is what i waited for the whole book. A breakthrough the act of finally overcoming or reaching an achievement by penetrating a wall/enemy that is restricting you from getting any progress. That wall...that enemy is what Echo and Noah faced on a daily bases.Echo's wall was her memoryNoah's enemy was the system"So Echo's sophomore year, she's the star of the school, right? She's on the dance team, advanced classes, honor roll, art guru, Miss popularity, and she's got Luke Manning feeling her up between classes. One month before school lets out- she disappears."Beth's eyes widened and she spread her fingers out like a magician doing a trick. This was not where i thought this story would go. Isaiah watched my reaction and nodded."Poof.""Gone,"added Beth"Vanished,"-Isaiah"Lost."-Beth"Evaporated.-Isaiah"Gone,"repeated BethEcho Emerson is now the shell of her old self. After her sudden absence at the end of her sophomore year Echo was never the same. Of course the rumor mill takes over and becomes out of control by the time she starts Junior year. However the truth is only known by a few. And unfortunately Echo is not one of them. Her memory of what happened to alter her life and leave her arms badly scarred is suppressed. Bummer right? The doctors all say it will come back when she is ready to handle it. Now Echo is forced to see her school shrink Mrs. Collins.Things change for Echo after she cross paths with Noah Hutchins. Noah is the school loner who has a rep for one night stands and getting high off weed. After butting heads the two realize they share a common need. And that is to read their case files for information. Information they both are not allowed to have yet crave more than their next breath. Of course they soon start to crave each other as well.Reading about these two made me feel like i was coming in to contact with static electricity. Check it out'She pushed off her toes toward me, guiding my head down, and gently kissed my lips. No. This wouldn't be goodbye. I'd fill her up and make her realize she'd always be empty without me.'-Noah's inner monologueThey also connected on a deeper level. Check this out'Her shoulders never shook. No tears streamed down her face. The worst type of crying wasn't the kind everyone could see-the wailing on the street corners, the tearing at clothes. No the worst kind happened when your soul wept and no matter what you did, there was no way to comfort it. A section withered and became a scar on the part of your soul that survived. For people like me and Echo, our souls contained more scar tissue than life.'- Noah's inner monologueSeriously.. Read this book!Fave lines"Stop sulking already. If you would have screwed her when you first met her, like i told you to, you wouldn't be twisted like a damn pretzel."-Beth"I'll always save you." Because i would. I'd move heaven and earth. I'd willingly walk into hell and stay there. I'd give up anything and everything for him.-Noah"Come here, baby." And with my words, Echo leaned into me: soft, pliant, broken. "You're not alone." I whispered into her hair as i cradled her in my arms. "You're not alone because you have me."-NoahThoughtsThis book is unputdownable! I loved it! The writing is superb and the characters are captivating. You instantly fall in love with Echo and Noah and their friends. I cannot wait for Beth's book. If you have not read this book READ IT!Echo-Is kind, hardworking and loving. I enjoyed watching her come out her shell and face her peers head on. She was stronger than she even realized. But when she did it was AMAZING. I hated how she allowed herself to be treated unfair by that BITCH Grace. And I hate the social class placed on kids in school and i hate hate hate followers. I loved her and Noah's relationship how they connected and shared their fears, struggles and goals with each other. I hope to get glimpses of her and Noah together in Beth's book.Noah-What is their not to love about him. His strength and his love was so beautiful. It made him even more sexier if thats possible. He took no crap what so ever when it came to his friends and family. The guy exudes AWESOMENESS! He was also FEARLESS he had no qualms with taking on the system and fighting for what he believed. He also possessed GRACE when it came to accepting what he knew in his heart was right.Lila-I liked Lila she proved to be a good friend. True she had her moments. But she never turned her back on Echo unlike some...Mrs. CollinsI loved her. I love how she really cared for both Echo and Noah. She championed for them and never let them down not once.Beth-Was a whole sloppy mess but in a good way. I cannot wait for her story.My RatingsCharacters- Lovable, Charming and WittyWriting Style- Solid and GenuinePlot/Storyline- ExcellentSteam Factor- Medium/Moderately SteamyOverall- I LOVED IT! READ IT!!!