This review is posted at My Secret RomanceWhat a bittersweet emotional story. A favorite by far this year.The worst type of crying wasn't the kind everyone else could see- the wailing on street corners, the tearing at clothes. No, the worst kind happened when your soul wept and no matter what you did, there was no way to comfort it. A section withered and became a scar on the part of your soul that survived. For people like me and Echo, our souls contained more scar tissue than life.This book tugged on so many of my emotions from heartfelt love to disdain. Pushing the Limits did just that to me- pushed me as far as I could go. I had to step back and reel in my emotions quite a few times since it was hitting so close to home, again. I've been so blessed to read so many wonderful authors lately who have left such imprints on me, and Katie McGarry is another one who has. This is a book that I could never, ever, forget.Echo...poor Echo. What this girl had to endure at such a young age is not something most could handle. Hell, it was hard reading at times for me. An extremely traumatic event caused such repercussions on Echo mental state that she blacked it out. Now with the help of a clinical social worker, she is working on recovering her memory and the reason behind the scars on her arms. It's a slow process, as it should be, since she went too fast the last time and her brain couldn't handle it all landing her in the hospital for a few days. Not only is Echo trying to remember her past and the scars, she's dealing with the death of the one person who made such a massive influence on her life, her brother Aries.Aside from working to uncover such disturbing moments in her life that she can't bring herself to believe, Echo returns to high school her senior year to find everyone staring and whispering about her. It's not easy for the once popular girl who had it all. Her friends are doing everything possible to put her back up on the social latter, even begging her to go back to dating Luke, which is the last thing Echo seems to want. What she does want is normal. She wants to be normal again and she finds it in the person she least expected to- the bad boy in school, dealing with issues as heavy as hers and also in foster care, Noah.Add in the cattiness of the students in high school, a pushy father who wants his daughter to excel, and a pregnancy by someone who Echo feels tore her family apart. Echo's emotions are all over the place and she's hurt the most by the ones she loves. Yet in this addicting story of survival and quest to find truth, Echo finds solace in the one person she never thought she would.The first 25% didn't do much to me. I didn't care for some of Echo's friends and how they treated her. At one point I felt like there were too many characters thrown in and I was having a hard time following. There was no connection, no emotion, nothing...and then BAM! It hit me like a ton of bricks and I was glued to this book right after! Good heavens what this book did to me! I am in awe over this story. I'm just..bewildered at how realistic and how moving Pushing the Limits is.It's brilliant!I am at a loss of words. All I know is that everyone should read this book. There is a beautiful story to be told and lessons to learn.It's funny how Echo was dealing with repressed events in her life. I hadn't realized I blocked out some events in my life until I read some scenes and they came roaring back to me. I hated reliving them, but it just made the book that much more for me because the author really nailed each one. No sugar coating and no fluff- it's all described exactly how it happens. As much as it hurt to remember, I felt like I was Echo and even Noah at times and dealing with the same struggles. You don't have to deal with any painful experiences for you to connect with the characters or story. The author does a superb job with their backgrounds and story development to lure you in when you least expect it. Well done Katie McGarry! I'm very much looking forward to the next book in this series.Favorites lines:Nothing increased your confidence level like being insulted by a stoner."Echo, I can't tell you what's going to happen because I don't know. I don't hold hands in the hallway or sit at anyone's table. But I swear...on my brothers that you'll never be a joke to me and you'll be much more than a girl in the backseat of my car." -Noah to EchoHe killed my soul and and I wanted his in return."Come here, baby." And with my words, Echo leaned into me: soft, pliant, broken. "You're not alone," I whispered into her hair as I cradled her in my arms. "You're not alone because you have me."And I love you, more than you could ever know.This book was provided by the publisher in return for an honest review.