This is the story of a former popular girl and a former golden boy finding each other in their quest for different lives and freedom, after they've lost everything that mattered.Echo Emerson has lost her dad to her nanny turned step-mother, her mum to bipolar disorder, her brother to the Marines and her friends and social life to one terrible night that gave her deep physical and psychological scars. She's erased the night from her memory to the point where flashes of those painful hours make her question her sanity. I admit, I'm not really generous with sympathy for angst-ridden teens, but Echo's story shook me up. She was dealt with so many consequent shitty cards, I didn't know which one to feel bad for. For all his claims of love for his daughter, Echo's dad could have been there for her better instead of hiding behind his guilt and his young wife's pregnant tummy. Not touching the topic of the human wrecking ball that is Echo's mom. And some of her 'friends' woke my inner bitch up with the urge to slap them. Repeatedly. Everything was made doubly worse by Echo's authority issues, as she put it and her ridiculous people pleasing tendencies.Noah Hutchins has lost his parents in a fire accident, his brothers to the foster care system and himself to the need for making his family whole again. His distrust of adults was understandable but his insta connection to Echo made no sense to me, given his guarded nature. There was attraction in the beginning, yes. To some extent, I'd even say they were kindred spirits. But there was absolutely no chemistry. Nada. The romance scenes seemed forced and mechanical. They would have been better off as friends. But the plot would have taken a hit, so I'm gonna let that one go. Some of the scenes involving Noah's interaction with his brothers were extremely moving. And I really liked Mrs.Collins. She was the only decent adult in this book.I'd recommend this book for YA fans, but not if you're looking for an epic romance or a swoon-worthy love story. I'm looking forward to read Isaiah's story though. Biker chick Beth's story was an absolute delight!