I cannot think of a book that has spoken to me more directly in a particular period of time. The "Rules of the Religion of Love" articulated by Shams state universal truths that we all realize deep down, but it is the way that the message is put together that really penetrates to our core essence.The Sufi path is one of getting to the meaning of things. It always desires to go deeper to experience ultimate reality. This requires losing conceptions of God, religion, relationships, life, etc... Yet there is a tension in this in that the Sufis do not say to discard a particular path. They are simply more concerned with the meaning behind it. It is like losing the desire for idle conversation and pleasantries. Even conceptions of "God" are "idle conversation" in many instances. God is unknowable, yet also knowable through certain universal truths that reside inside. Therefore the Sufi finds companions in all people who live by truths such as equality, justice, compassion and most importantly love.I do desire to walk the Sufi path, and I found myself relating to the character Aziz in this book. His past and mine were nearly identical, from losing a wife to death to the experience with a debauched lifestyle. The restlessness of his nomadic drive to journey physically and discover also resonates with my own decision to move to the Middle East, a decision that I still cannot articulate in a truly profound fashion. Some meanings are beyond words. That may also be why my desire to write has diminished as of late. Experiences seem to be replacing that desire.In the Islamic tradition, two of the names of God are "The All-Forgiving" and "The All-Compassionate". Along these lines, Shams emphasizes that God is not sitting around waiting to destroy us at every turn. After all, we are manifestations of God, and God is not "out there" just as much as God is not "in here". This realization of the limits of knowledge requires a loving attitude to life and others, as well as a forgiving attitude. The unknowable makes us question how we truly can know outside of the principles of love and humility. It should put a check on aggression, violence and oppression in all religious circles. Yet when we grasp onto the externalities of a dualistic world, we will always see relative good and relative evil and believe both to be real rather than recognizing The ONE that runs through it all.