I've come to realize why I am addicted to these types of books, for years I've had nightmares about the world ending or some kind of disaster where I'm trying to save my kids and sometimes other people. I do know that I have these nightmares when I am stressed out and overwhelmed and that's what the dream is symbolizing(something in my life is out of control) and me trying to save people symbolizes that I'm trying to get it under control. I used to be huge into dreams and their meanings. But, still these dreams are so real and scary that I will think about them for days. It also terrifies me that this could really happen to me and my loved ones. So, I guess reading these types of books gives me a little hope that we could survive, as crazy as that may seem.Life as we knew it, wow, it's pretty amazing. When I first started reading it I thought it was just ok(before all the action started) but then it had this snowball affect and just kept getting better and better and better. I'm impressed at where this author has taken me and all the emotions I felt along the way. When these characters were starving, I couldn't even eat, that's how attached I felt to these characters. When Miranda bursts into laughter after hysteria and panic, I totally get it, I've had these same emotions plenty.This story is told thorugh Miranda's diary. Miranda is a 16-year old normal girl, who lives with her mother and two brothers.She's been writing about her family, her friends, interests, homework and all the excitement over the meteor that's going to be hitting the moon.When this huge meteor hits the moon it knocks the moon out of orbit and causes a lot of world disasters. Tsunamis are hitting everywhere and then there's crazy storms and soon volcanic erruptions and volcanic ash covering the world, servere climate changes, states are just gone, submerged under water. So many people have died and the ones still alive are struggling to survive.Stores are being ransacked, gasoline prices are crazy unbelievable(like $75 for 3 gallons of gas), electricity is almost non-existent and it's a matter of time before food and water runs out.The main characters are strong and also very normal, family-next-door type. The kids grow up pretty quickly and learn to make sacrifices and value life.This book really makes you appreciate the little things and important things in life.