Date I finished this book: 06/09/2013Date I was ready to review this book: NeverUnfortunately, I have to review it because it is due back to the library tomorrow, so here comes my completely insufficient review.This book is by Khaled Hosseini.Really, what more is there to say? I knew it would be wonderful.I have to admit that the problem I ran into was that I was comparing it to his previous two books too often. And let's face it, they wereamazing. And this book is incredible in its own right, too, but it's not to be compared. So, I tried to view this as its own book (which it most certainly is) and forget I had ever read the other two and that this was the first time I was experiencing Hosseini.I'm not going to recap. It would be pretty difficult to not give anything away. There are many stories within this one story. The characters are intertwined, although many will never realize that they are. The story comes full circle, but this is Mr. Khaled Hosseini, so I didn't expect a full blown happy ending. And *SPOILER ALERT*, I didn't really get one.None of this business going on:Although, I will say that maybe Disney and Hosseini are of one mind. Or at least Sebastian and Hosseini:Yes it is, Sebastian. Yes it is.What have I learned from this book?We (the human race) have (mostly) good intentions. But we (mostly) do not follow through. We soothe ourselves. We convince ourselves. We justify our actions. Or our lack of actions. We have an "out of sight, out of mind" way of thinking. It's a human flaw. And sometimes it has consequences that we cannot comprehend. Consequences that we may never realize because, hey, it's out of sight. Oh sure. Just like him to point out WHAT IS WRONG WITH ME! Not that I'm taking it personally...One thing anyone who has read my other reviews should know is that I frequently complain about:1. Not making me care about the characters enough2. Not being able to envision the surroundings - the people, the buildings, the culture, etc.I don't experience this problem with this book. The writing is so rich that I felt like I was there. My emotions reflected the emotions of the characters. I wasinvested.I am not ashamed to admit that I went back to chewing on my nails while reading this - a habit I gave up over adecadeago.SOMETHING BAD IS GOING TO HAPPEN!!!You would think this was an edge-of-the-seat suspense novel. It's not. But it is heartbreaking. I bet I cried no less than ten times. Granted, I cried when they showed a bear on the local news that they rescued from a telephone pole, so I cry more than the average bear (ha. ha. ha.). But it was still really heartbreaking...over and over and over because there were so many intertwined stories.I really enjoyed this book. I didn't love it in the same way I loved the previous two, but I loved it still. And I will give you a parting paragraph that is an example of the beautiful writing that makes me savor every word of this book:Now and then, when she turned to tap ash into a saucer, I stole a quick glance at the red polish on her toenails, at the gold-tinged sheen of her shaved calves, the high arch of her foot, and always at her full, perfectly shaped breasts. There were men walking this earth, I marveled, who had touched those breasts and kissed them as they had made love to her. What was left to do in life once you had done that? Where did a man go next once he'd stood at the world's summit?--------------------------I just finished this. I am emotionallydrained. Review coming soon.--------------------------04/18/2013Did...did I just read that there is a giveaway for this? SHUT THE FRONT DOOR!Too much?Ok, I'll settle for cute and hope for the best. ;)--------------------------WHAT?! A new book by Khaled Hosseini? I can't...I just can't....I can't even think straight right now BECAUSEOHMYGOODNESSIAMSOSOSOSOSOSOSOEXCIIIIIIIIIITED!!!!!!!!I CAN'T WAIT!!Have I mentioned how EXCITED I AM!?I am so excited!