NOW LIVE ON AMAZON!!KINDLE LINK:http://www.amazon.com/Real-ebook/dp/B...PAPERBACK LINK:http://www.amazon.com/Real-Katy-Evans...GENRE: Categorized as NA, but, honestly, it's adult contemporary. Both characters are in their early-mid twenties and have careers. 18+HEAT LEVEL: I'm pretty sure it cannot be adequately rated! See my review.*New* INTENSITY LEVEL: Un. Be. Lievable. See my review.NOTE: Book #1 of The Real, Raw &amp; Ripped Series,BUTthis is a complete story!!! There will be a follow-up book from Remy's POV, as well as a third book. However, this story is whole, and there areNO CLIFFHANGERS!!5 REAL Stars!!My prediction? REAL isThe Next Big Thing, and Katy Evans isgoing places! HolyfreakingOMG, people!! I have never,not ever, read the kind of insane chemistry and level of intensity that is in this book! I have a new obsession, and his name? The two words you wanna remember?REMINGTON TATE.Remington Tate is THE star of the scary-dangerous underground fighting circuit. Once a former pro boxer, he fell from grace and has made a new name for himself in the underground. Brooke Dumas had been so close to living her dream she could smell, taste and touch it. But, all of that died with one serious injury. Now she's been hired as Remington Tate's sports rehab specialist. Brooke knows exactly what she wants from him. She simply cannot help herself because he attracts her mind and body in ways that she has no ability to fight. Remy is the single most compelling and confusing man she has ever encountered. There is something very different about him, and it drags her along in his wake. He often 'speaks' to Brooke in the choice of song he plays for her. She knows they have a connection unlike any she knew existed. But...what does he actually want from her and, more importantly, can she survive it?WOW x 100would not be an understatement when it comes to REAL. I don't even know where to start or how to properly do it justice in a review.Until you have read and experienced the chemistry, the intensity, the heat...there is simply no way for me to even get close to adequately expressing what this story, this relationship, these characters...REMINGTON will do to you as a woman. My mind and body werebuzzingwhile reading this book, and I've been feeling the aftershocks for several days now! I'm almost positive that my ebook was releasing pheromones! I LIVE for stories with fantastic chemistry and high intensity, and REAL was, OMG, both!!REAL is written with a kind of rough and raw prose and style, and this is something else I absolutely adore, particularly for this story. It would not have worked any other way. Katy Evans (and all who collaborated to bring this book to life), amazing job. Amazing!The characters? What can I say? I loved them ALL. The focus is absolutely on Remy and Brooke in this story, but the secondary characters do add something essential. Brooke...that girl reeled me in. I wasn't certain how I felt about her in the very early part of the book, but, once you get past the first chapter (and that's important...get past the first chapter and get into the meat of the story), I fell in love with her. She knows her job, and Katy Evans did an amazing job with Brooke's internal dialogue. I loved how she expressed her attraction to Remy, especially, in such a fascinatingly semi-scientific way. I know, I know. But, trust me. It makes her so authentic....and, strangely, it's hot ;-)Then we get to Remington. Good. God. Almighty. I am thoroughly OBSESSED! What a complex individual. What a fighter. What a tease. What a sexual being. What a...MAN! He absolutely broke my heart, and hespoketo me. I got him. I really did. I hope everyone else will, as well. He is damaged, and he is dealing with a truly serious issue. Truly serious. He's also insanely raw and primal! He's obviously Alpha, but it's tempered with a resigned sadness and vulnerability that makes him unlike any Alpha I've read before. He's the most real Alpha I've ever read before. Heis...REAL.Please, whatever you do, give REAL a chance to work its magic and pheromones on you;) Honestly, I don't think I have to worry. This book is one you're going to hear A LOT about. Katy Evans? Girl, congrats. You know I'm waiting for my next Remy fix! You rocked this oneHARD.**ARC provided by the author in exchange for an honest review**