I've seen this book in my feed foryearsnow, so I finally decided to take the plunge and see what all the fuss was about. And I'm really glad I did because this was a pretty cool story.Ok, in this world there are demons.Hiss!Not the kind that possesses you and turns you into a minion of Satan, though!The kind that come out at night and eat you!RAWR!Alright. So basically these demons (called corelings b/c they come from the core of the earth) rise up at night and wander around looking for humans (and animals) to eat. And the only thing that can protect you are thewardsyou have etched onto your houses and barns, or portable wards made of wood that the Messengers use while traveling from village to village.And for somewhat contrived reasons these wards tend to fail (erosion, water washes them away, wind blows stuff down, etc.) or people don't make it back inside the warded areas before the night falls, and...instant demon snack!{insert screaming here}There are all sorts of religious stories and lore about what they are and how they were beaten back the first time around, plus a prophecy about some Deliverer who will pop up one day and save the world from these things. But for the majority of the story, all of that is just background noise.The main plot(s) revolve around three different characters (Arlen, Leesha, and Rojer) that you're introduced to separately at pivotal moments in their childhoods.Except they don't meet each other till they'rewaaaaayolder, so you're hopping back and forth between three different stories for the vast majority of the book.And by the time theydomeet, they've all been through some pretty rough shit. Especially Arlen, who's all snarling, growly, &amp; freaky-looking in general by the time he finds Leesha and Rojer.Ok. So all of that was awesome. I'm really digging this book until it was like...90%ishof the way done, and then this spoilery rape thing happened that kind of made me scrunch up my face.Now, understand that I'm not opposed to rape in books that I read. It happens in real life. A lot. So, writing about it, if it's handled well, is something that I think can help shed light on a dark subject.But.To me, this wasn't one of those times that the story gained anything by adding it in there.(view spoiler)[So Leesha gets gang-raped by robbers while on the road with Rojer. It's told (mostly) by Rojer through flashbacks, so it isn't terribly descriptive, which was good. I think part of what bothered me was that such a big deal had been made about Leesha and her virginity throughout the book. &lt;--she's like 27ish at this pointShe had guarded her 'flower' carefully and was determined to do things 'right' her entire life, even though several times there were women she trusted who told her there was nothing wrong with having sex for pleasure. I mean, right before she set out on the road, her trusted mentor had told her she should probably just screw some random guy and get it over with. And that wasn'tbadadvice or anything, so it got her to thinking that maybe herflowerwasn't all that important. More spoilery things happen, and out of desperation, she almost lets a Messanger (who had tried to rape her years ago) have sex with her as payment for taking her on the road...but changed her mind at the last minute.Then got raped anyway! And gang-raped at that! What was the moral of the story? Hurry up and have sex before a bunch of highwaymen have their way with you in the dirt?Ok, and that probably wasn't what the author intended, but it just felt (to me) sort of wrong when I was reading it.And all of that was odd enough, but then she decides withindaysof getting raped that she wants to have sex with Arlen. Whut?! They hadjust met...but he somehow made her feel safe enough to hike up her skirts on the ground with little to no foreplay? I can't imagine that gang-rape is easy on your tender parts, and I just don't see how a woman would physically heal enough in few days for that to be even sorta-kinda comfortable...much less pleasurable.NO. Just...no. I have a hard time swallowing that one.And lastly. --&gt; Arlen and Rojer find the guys who did it, steal back the portable wards from them, and leave them to the demons. And Leesaha freaks the fuck out and gets super-angry at them!WHAT?!I get that demons arehumanity'senemy. I get that you don't want togiveanything to the demons. But I feel like her reaction to finding out that her friends allowed those scumbags (that forcefully took her virginity!) to get eaten by demons was RIDICULOUS. If nothing else, they saved the next girl those assholes would have done that to. Plus, they severely beat Rojer and left the two of them stranded on the side of the road with no protection from the demons that were approaching. If Arlen hadn't shown up and saved them?Chomp chomp, motherfuckers!Rojer deserved revenge even if Leesha didn't want it, you know?Ugh.spitsI don't know. There was just nothing about it that made me feel like it was necessary (so far) to this storyline.(hide spoiler)]And maybe that tainted my view of things from there on out? I'm not sure.But for whatever reason, the last bit of the story seemed draggy to me. And for all intents and purposes it reallyshouldn'thave! Because that was the part with the Big Battle and all the action-y goodness that comes with a Big Battle with demon monsters.Anyway.Until the stuff towards the end, I was just eating this book up and enjoying every bit of it. And I'm not 100% sure if I was reading the stuff I didn't like right or not, so I don't want to toss it down and say I'm done. Because I know I'm late to the game, but I think this has the potential to be one of those fantasy series that I can actually get through. I can't quite give it 5 stars but it was still (overall) a really good story.