Welcome to a world where every person knows what time the sun sets. Sure it's partially because when the sun sets is quitting time, but it's mainly because people are trying to avoid being torn to shreds. When the sun goes down evil literally comes out. Some call them corelings others call them alagai, but their name doesn't matter when they come out. All that matters is being behind the wards, well that and making sure the wards are fresh and clearly drawn. In this insane world three survivors of demon attacks stand up to fight back against their seemingly indestructible enemy.The Warded Man was an outstanding surprise for me. I read the premise and thought it sounded promising, but I didn't intend to fall in love with it. This book captured my imagination and left my heart thumping every time someone stepped outside their wards. I read late into the night and ignored all sorts of responsibilities to read The Warded Man.The book focuses on three protagonists Arlen, Leesha, and Rojer. We meet them all as children and watch their exploits as they grow into adulthood. Arlen is a fierce young son of a farmer who wants to see the world and is willing to fight the demons to do it. Arlen is also such a strong warder that his father trusts him with the families wards. Maybe it doesn't sound like much, but if a family's wards fail the family dies in a gruesome manner so his the trust in Arlen is significant. Leesha and Rojer's stories unfold a bit more slowly, but they are each incredibly important.The world of The Warded Man is one in which demons have stalked the night for hundreds of years. The flashes of light and horrible sounds of demons slashing at wards are as common a sound as owls and crickets are for us. All the free cities except Fort Krasia have given up fighting against the demons and the people huddle behind their warded homes to wait out the night...every night of their lives.I could ramble on for days talking about The Warded Man, but I'll just say it's an astonishing debut novel for author Peter V. Brett. I've already lost count how many times I've read this book.My original review(view spoiler)[Amazing book! The concept kept me on the edge from the beginning of the story to the end. Every night being a new terror to endure. Man has been hiding so long that the sounds of demons testing their wards each night is as common as the the sounds of crickets and owls are to us.This book is now my favorite book outside of the A Song of Ice and Fire series.(view spoiler)[ I loved Arlen's character from the moment the book started. The idea that a child was less afraid of the demons that stalked the night than nearly anyone alive was wonderful. The fact that Arlen could've given up and let himself die so many times yet he kept fighting despite others refusing to help like his father.Leesha was an awesome character as well. I particularly enjoyed when she drugged Marick so that he was too flaccid to rape her. The idiot Marick could've actually made love to her too later in the book if he wasn't fool enough to believe Gared's lie the townsfolk spoke about.I thought it interesting that Rojer's fiddle playing could control demons. I look forward to the trio's accomplishments in the upcoming books.Also I wanted to say Jardir is a fool and an a hole. Who the hell tries to kill the man who just provided humanity's best chance at defeating the demons? Only a pompous jerk like Jardir who betrays a man he calls friend so he can carry the ancient weapon and be called the Deliverer. Jardir could've utilized his friendship with Arlen into letting him have the original spear so Arlen didn't up end being convicted of grave robbing the Kaji. Sorry to rant, but I was pissed when the betrayal occurred.(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[(hide spoiler)](hide spoiler)]