First things first, thank you Mark Monday for recommending this piece of treasure to me. I've read another amazing fantasy novel! Your recommendations are always spot on!I finished this novel in just a day. Need I inform you that this is aFantasy novel, and I finished it in one day. It was that good my good people. It's near impossible to finish a fantasy novel in a day, as the length of any tend to make you finish one in 2-5 days. I'm aware that this had fewer pages compared to most fantasy novels, but still, 450 is not "few".This was an amazing adventure. The characters were really likeable, and the world building was really good. Note that I said really good, and not spot on or perfect or whatever perfect depicting adjective there is. This is not a perfect novel, but it was damn amazing nonetheless.Three kids who suffered terrible losses had no choice but to move on, and try to forget their terrible past. But how can they when the demons that lurk in the night prevents them to do so?ArlenI probably overuse this next line, but he was one of my favorite characters of all time! Of all three he had to be the one who developed best. He, in a way, outgrew his terrible past, or maybe conceal it in a way where he doesn't look weak. He was an arrogant and stubborn kid who grew up to be a powerful man.(view spoiler)[ This was not a shock at all, but he became the warded man. One of the few moments when the author tried to do a plot twist [I think], but really failed, because it was too obvious anyway.Another thing that I liked about him though was that he literally ate demon meat. I mean, sure it sounds quite disgusting, but for me it made this novel badass. Then the author kind of hinted us that Arlen is not fully human anymore, as he consumed much demon meat, and something about magic. It was really cool for me, and not disgusting at all. It's also not cannibalism, as demons were described as kind of like insects in the end of the novel, by Leesha.One thing I didn't like about him was his "sex scene" with Leesha. It was forced. Was is just so that there's a hint of romance in this novel? What about Gared and Leesha? I know it was a forced relationship by their parents, but Arlen and Leesha was just too cheesy and cliche for me. [I don't wanna spoil any relationshup shit from other novels but, Mistorn and The First Law would have similar ones](hide spoiler)]LeeshaHonestly Leesha was a huge slap in the face to women in general. She was weak, and till the end she didn't develop enough to become a strong woman. She portrayed those women who let men dictate their lives. Even though shetriedto defend herself in a way, she failed in the end because of her soft heart. Although I don't know why I really liked her still. For me she still has room to grow.RojerOkay at first I hated this weak bugger, but in the end I kinda liked him more than Leesha. He obviously started out weak, and proved to be a wimp. As the novel progressed though, he slowly became the man he should be. He might have lost few people he really cared about, but in the end he overcame that and became a strong man. I liked his character development, it didn't feel forced.To talk about the world building now. I really liked the world that Peter Brett created. I am ahugefan of demons, thus I was expecting a lot from this one. Fantasy and Demons combined? What the hell, this is the book for me. This felt like it was of the medieval period, which I am also a huge fan of. It was described well enough to be loved, and imagined vividly. No complaints whatsoever regarding the world building, as I was drawn in completely.The demons were very believable. The mere fact that they only come out at night solely supports the description of the demons that we know of. Their way of attacking humans was also interesting. There are a few types of demons, and each one proved to be interesting in their own ways.To sum things up, this has been added to my favorites! 5/5 stars, because that was one amazing ride. Yes, compared to other fantasy novels this was not as good, but come on, it was still pretty amazing. I liked this one better than Lies of Locke Lamora to be honest. I'm more of an action guy, and this one had a lot of action in it, but it wasn't pure action, as the world building was still great. Go ahead and pick this up, and have yourself a great novel. Still waiting for my order of the second novel, Desert Spear, to arrive. I really wanna read the sequel right away.