$2.99 Kindle sale, Dec. 26, 2018.Every once in a while on Goodreads I find myself feeling compelled to make a True Confession, and here's another one: I'm not all that much of a Hercule Poirot fan.For someone who's read probably 30 or 40 Agatha Christie books over her lifetime, that's probably an odd thing. I like him okay, I don't DISlike him, but yeah, he kind of irks me sometimes. So when I'm picking up an Agatha Christie mystery, I'm always a little bit tickled when it doesn't involve Poirot. This is one of those books, so it already had a leg up on the competition when I started it.And here's the other thing: with all the Christie books I've read in my lifetime, there are only a handful that I've found really memorable. This, again, is one of those books. In fact, plotwise I would say it's my favorite Christie book of all time. Many Christie fans consider it her masterpiece.Eight very different people are invited to an isolated island off the coast of England. Fairly soon it becomes apparent that they all have one thing in common: they've all been accused of murder but were never convicted or brought to justice. Each person has gotten a written invitation to the island, tailored to their needs or situation, like a job offer or a holiday invitation, most of the invitations coming from someone they don't know who signs the invites as U.N. Owen. Together with the butler and cook who are already on the island, there are ten people. They gather for drinks and to meet their U.N.Known host. While they are waiting, a few things happen:1. They notice a framed copy of the nursery rhyme "Ten Little Indians" hanging on the wall, in which the Indians* leave, die or disappear one by one, until there are none. There are also ten Indian figurines on the dining room table.2. Mysteriously, a recorded voice begins to speak, describing each of the characters in turn and accusing them each of committing murder but evading justice . . . until now.3. One of the guests laughs off the shock and quickly downs a drink. And immediately chokes and dies. One of the ten figurines is soon discovered to be broken, and the nursery rhyme reflects his manner of death ("One choked his little self and then there were nine").So begins an intense tale, as the guests frantically try to protect themselves and figure out which of them is the killer (or is it someone else hiding on the island?) before they are all dead. And at the same time, they're all dealing with their own feelings of guilt to varying degrees. And the figurines keep disappearing--DUN! DUN! DUN! The psychological exploration in this book is great, beyond anything I recall reading in any other Christie mystery, and the reveal at the end completely surprised me.*Content note:For the record, some readers may have qualms with this nearly 80-year-old novel's dicey history of racial slurs and insensitivity. It was originally actually titledTen Little Niggers, based on the British version of this poem, which apparently wasn't considered offensive enough not to use in England when the book was first published in 1939. For the American edition of the book, it was changed to "Ten Little Indians" and, later, "And Then There Were None" (which is the version I have, but still with the Indian poem and figurines) - better but still not great. I understand that many recent editions now use ten little soldiers for the poem.