"I had written this book because it was so difficult to do that the idea had fascinated me. Ten people had to die without it becoming ridiculous or the murderer being obvious. I wrote the book after a tremendous amount of planning, and I was pleased with what I had made of it......the person who was really pleased with it was myself, for I knew better than any critic how difficult it had been."&amp; Christie was so right to be pleased with this book! It is her mistresspiece and my favourite mystery of all time!Brilliantly plotted and tightly planned - for tension and thrills you can't go past the moment when(view spoiler)[ the book is down to the final two people(hide spoiler)]My onlyplotcriticism is(view spoiler)[ the murderer's selection of Vera was based on pretty weak evidence.(hide spoiler)]That won't take away from my enjoyment.Butthe casual racism in some of the text pretty shocking.He had fancied though that the little Jew had not been deceived - that was the damnable part about Jews, you couldn't deceive them about money - theyknew!I'm not a fan of sanitising an author's work. Everyone has to go into a Christie prepared for racism (&amp; classism &amp; sexism in the way female servants are often portrayed - although not in this particular book.)But speaking of sanitising - the original title has been removed from the original title field for this book here on Goodreads. Given that a quick search will show other books with the same word in the title I find this puzzling. I know in my own country the word was still in use in the sixties (my mother quietly pulled my sisters &amp; I aside &amp; told us not to use it in games of tag.) &amp; I do believe Christie didn't know how offensive it was in the States. (her publishers' apparent ignorance though is beyond baffling)Edit: Realised I never updated this. Problem was solved with original title (was Librarian error)&amp; I try to check every week to make sure it hasn't been changed/deleted again.Edit 21/04/19Oh boy, I hope this is mistake!I haven't checked for a month or so, then noticed the original title had gone.I went into the changelog &amp; found this note;librarian note for this book (last edited by Goodreads at Apr 16, 2019 09:58AM)Please do not change this book's original title field. Failure to comply may result in the loss of your librarian status. Thank you, The Goodreads TeamThis makes zero sense, since editions of this book featuring the original (very offensive) name are still catalogued. &amp; a simple search will show other books with this word in their title still listed here.I have emailed Support. I'm hoping this is a case of a staff member acting against policy, rather than more evidence that GR can no longer be trusted with our reading records. :(Edit: 24/04/19 Have heard from Goodreads &amp; this was a staff error. Original (offensive) title has been put back in the system by another librarian. Good news, but I wonder if GR has ever given any thought to hiring experienced volunteer Librarians rather than the raw recruits they use now.I'll try to keep a better eye on this. :)