"Looky-here, Tom, being rich ain't what it's cracked up to be. It's just worry and worry, and sweat and sweat, and a-wishing you was dead all the time."This book is great. I hadn't read it in years, and found it just as good as the previous times I've read it. An American classic by the late, great Mark Twain.Tom Sawyer isn't really a bad kid although he's always painted and remembered as a little troublemaker, the truth is he has a strong conscience and a strong moral compass. Sure he'll "hook" doughnuts, sugar, and jam from his put-upon Aunt Polly and play hooky from school, but I couldn't believe how good and brave he was in general. He steps up and takes a whipping in his girl's place like a mensch, he stands up and tells the truth in a situation in which he literally could be murdered for doing so, etc. etc. Sure he basks in the fame and glory, and, um, feminine gratitude he receives after these acts, but that's okay. To be honest most people wouldn't be brave enough to perform these acts in the first place.The flirtations and dramas between Becky and Tom are BEYOND cute. OMG. Making each other jealous, giving each other little gifts and having tiny kissing is all part of the cute, drama-filled, very kid-like romance here and I was laughing out loud for most of it.Another super-fun thing about the book is all the free-range kids in it. The children are just turned loose and expected home for dinner. Much different than it is now, where children aren't even allowed to ride their bikes around the block. Also, with no TV, no movies, no phone, and no radio, it's interesting to see how children amused themselves in the 1800s. For instance, Joe and Tom haveThe Merry Adventures of Robin Hoodmemorized (MEMORIZED) and frequently run around the forest acting it out, each boy taking turns playing various parts. They also pretend to be pirates and hermits and explorers and discoverers a lot. There's also a fascination with animals (both alive and dead), sores and cuts, insects, knives and half-broken baubles on which great importance is placed.There's also the drama, Tom and Huck(view spoiler)[witness a murder(hide spoiler)]and that and the culprit's escape cause much tension and fear in the boys, elevating the book from backwoods games to more sinister stuff. It's not realistic, especially the ending where(view spoiler)[Tom and Huck end up with $6,000 each(hide spoiler)]but it makes for great fiction.Twain is funny and witty as usual.It's also funny and true about how the little boys are such drama-kings, always imagining themselves drowning and how sorrowful everyone will be when they're gone. They're frequently fantasizing about romantic, dramatic deaths that teach everyone a lesson in valuing them.Twain also perfectly captures the superstitious and steadfast beliefs that children have. One of the best parts of the book is when Tom and Huck watch Injun Joe lie to a whole group of people and Tom is just waiting... waiting... waiting... for lightning to strike him down. Lightning he is SURE is coming. And when it never comes, Huck and Tom are in awe and ABSOLUTELY convinced that Injun Joe has sold his soul to the devil, andThey inwardly resolved to watch him nights, when opportunity should offer, in the hope of getting a glimpse of his dread master.The relationship between Tom and his Aunt Polly is also touching. She loves him but scolds him on the hope he'll reform and walk a straighter path; he loves her very much but can't help struggling hard against the chaffing of her rules and decorum.However, that all being said. Would I read this to any child in my family? A black child in my family? A child in my family with a black parent and a non-black parent? No, I would not. If a child wants to pick this up (whether s/he loves it or discards it is her/his own business) then that's fine, but this would not be one I'd pick to read aloud at bedtime.