A poet "Homeless", as he calls himself, and a magazine editor, his gruff boss, Berlioz, are having a conversation, in a quiet, nondescript Moscow park, just before the start of the Second World War. Drinking, just harmless sodas, and discussing business, ordinary right? That's the last time in this novel, it is. An apparition appears in the sky, weird and unbelievable, a frightening seven foot transparent man, is seen floating above their heads, but only Berlioz spots it, he's obviously, the editor, a very sick man... Later a foreign, debonair stranger, joins them on the next bench, they start an uncomfortable, lively, rather dangerous conversation about Jesus ( in the days of Stalinist Russia ), if he really existed. The newcomer, a self -described black magic expert, tells the others, he saw Pontius Pilate and Jesus, personally ! Naturally his startled companions, look at him with a little disbelief, the two close friends , think Professor Woland ( the name is discovered afterwards) must be a spy or crazy, either way, authorities should be contacted immediately. Tragic results follow soon after, a wild, long, thrilling, death defying chase, through many city streets, ensues, strangest of all, a giant black Tom cat , who walks on two legs, and tries to get on a streetcar, but the heartless conductor, says no cats, refuses entry. But Behemoth , the big cat's name, does manage to get on the streetcar, they're very intelligent, resourceful, demanding animals. What the devil is going on ? The charismatic professor, and his talented entourage, give the best magic show, on stage, ever seen in Moscow, by an astounded audience, it's so spectacular, incomprehensible and not explainable, that all the city wants to go also . Still ticket lines are numerous blocks in length, and growing, too bad you missed it! Meanwhile a married woman, Margarita, having an affair with an obscure, poor author, writing a novel, she calls him "Master", you guessed right , the book is about the Roman Governor of Judaea, Pontius Pilate. Mirroring Bulgakov's life, the manuscript is banned... Countless, funny adventures follow, involving soaring humans, flying without a vehicle, the joys and terrors, looking down, you can imagine, and the destruction of fragile property, everywhere... men disappear, creepy events happening all around the vast city , and in the countryside.... The highlight is Satan's loathsome Ball, presided over by the stunned Margarita, as the incredibly reluctant Queen, attended mostly by the dead... eerie, bizarre and grotesque, to say the least. A dream like, unworldly, vague, melancholic atmosphere permeates. Flamboyant, imaginative fable, a real classic.