I'm just going to let the sparrow take the wheel of this humble attempt to review a book that I cannot find the words to adequately define! The fox trotting sparrow that is. Haven't read this book yet? If you haven't, that isn't a spoiler, it's just a fantastical little paragraph and image that has stuck with me. Imagine...a sparrow dancing the foxtrot...and then pooping. Are you doing it? OK, now you're ready for this book.I sure wasn't ready for what was in store for me. I struggled at first. And it's not that this is an especially difficult book; it's not. What was my downfall initially was a combination of my tendency to read too fast and eagerly and my complete ignorance of biblical characters and events. I stopped at around page 50 and did some background reading then started over. This time it was better. Not only better, but insanely mind bending head scratchingly WEIRD. I am so glad I read this in a group discussion. With so many intelligent minds swapping ideas and insights I was able to better grasp what I was reading and appreciate this book for the rich and complex masterpiece that it is.This book is unlike anything I've ever read. Gold star for uniqueness, creativity and strangeness.It very quickly, within the first few pages, successfully creates the atmosphere which remains throughout. An unnerving, foreboding, dreamlike, fuzzy, paranoid, off-kilter, eye squinting, confusing, lonely and chaotic feeling that never goes away. You never know what's coming next, and it keeps coming and doesn't let up.To me, the nucleus of the story was the satire and rebellion against the oppression that was present in Bulgakov's time. In a nutshell this was a farcical and hilarious romp through a world of delicious absurdity, a distorted fun-house mirror reflection of Stalinist Russia. But gosh, it is so much more than that. To write a proper review of this is beyond me. How to even explain what it's like to read this? I mean, there's (view spoiler) and...and...all this is long after a walking talking gun toting cat strolls around wreaking havoc every couple of chapters. And there's this ball scene that is an insane mishmash of things that reminded me of a pool party (Cognac anyone?), a Masquerade ball and the orgy scene from Eyes Wide Shut, and I really don't appreciate anything reminding me of Tom Cruise's existence. It's really saying something when the least odd thing about that chapter was that the walking talking cat wasn't just a walking talking cat but that he was wearing a bow tie with no pants - because of course it would be weird for a cat to wear pants (Maybe Bulgakov always wondered, like I do, why Donald Duck wears no pants but in scenes where he comes out of the shower he has a towel wrapped around his waist?).The female characters are naked most of the time. The character of Margarita occasionally has a black cloak thrown over her shoulders, but she's mostly nuddy too. Apart from the visual, obviously Bulgakov was giving a big fat middle finger to the restraints of the Soviet regime. Or he was just a perv. You decide.The Master - He initially appears as a powerful and mysterious person, a writer and a strong presence. He's in love with Margarita and is full of passion and longing for her. Perhaps Bulgakov's death before he could finish editing this book explains the unevenness I noticed with his character. Towards the end he is merely a shell of his former self, he seemed dull and faded and barely there. Or maybe this was what happens to people. They get worn out and disillusioned. Maybe the Master is a representation of a once prosperous and lively society who dwindles and crumbles under Soviet rule. Maybe the Master is the people and Margarita is what happens when "the devil" gets involved. It's dazzling initially, those early stages of attraction and infatuation, the promise, the butterflies and pheromones, and then the cracks are revealed and suddenly it's not so bright and you were blindsided. And life as you know it is gone.Margarita - Such a strong presence in the book. She doesn't appear until part two but she was involved in some of the wackiest plots and left such a lasting impression on me (again, that's saying a lot when there's a walking talking gut toting cat around!). Margarita was in no way an admirable or strong character. Her actions are motivated by love, sure, but once she gets that love back she becomes this desperate and needy person who seemed to me to be far more in love with the Master than he was with her. She's like that one friend who can't take the hint and I wanted to shake her and yell "Girl, he's just not that into you!". Their relationship starts of believably romantic and passionate and yet, by the end it feels off. The cat (devil/Margarita) goes after it's prey (the people/The Master) and the prey ( the people/The Master ) can't sustain (his)itself under the suffocating pressure of the rulers ( devil/Margarita ). See how it all just brilliantly ties together?!Speaking of Margarita, the role of women in the book intrigues me. Nudity aside, they played roles that I noticed were violent and/or weak. (view spoiler)Honorary mention to Behemoth, the shadiest feline in literature and also a constant source of delight throughout the book. I freakin' adored every sentence involving him.The pages of this book are abundant with stunning imagery. We are constantly bathed in moonlight and silhouettes, burnt orange sunsets and blaring glares. The atmospheric nature of Bulgalov's writing really won me over, as well providing symbols of light and dark, day and night, good and evil. The book speaks to human weakness, human strength, sheep mentality, mind control, over powering forces, resistance and it's utterly entertaining, intriguing and thought-provoking. I know I'll pull this out in 5 years and read it again and discover dozens of things I missed. It's sadly still relevant today and probably will be in another 50 years. Though we like to think we're more enlightened as each generation passes, humanity seems to be on a infinite hamster wheel, learning very little and still blinded by the suns and the moons that shone over the characters in The Master and Margarita. And yet as dark and serious as Bulgakov's central message was I felt he carried with him hope. For the future of his country, his people and for mankind. Woland, the "evil force", the darkness, leaves us with the parting words "Everything will turn out right, the world is built on that" (p.382)Well, we can only hope.