This was most excellent; I can 100% see why this is many readers' favorite Stephen King novel. Heck, it's my favorite novel of his to date, although I have a good number of his books to catch up on. I've found myself overly critical of his work in the past, possibly due to the fact that he's so well known, but I feel it's more been a fault on my end. Previously I've picked up one of his doorstops at a time I wasn't prepared to fully invest in the time and energy it takes to immerse oneself into his world building and lengthy details. This time, I was ready. (Also, this was only like 600 pages which felt like a novella compared to IT.)I'm finally able to understand why so many people hold the standard of traditional horror in comparison to this novel. Sure, it has all the creepy crawlies and spooky wookies to get your heart racing, but it's so grounded in reality that I had a hard time rationalizing with myself that "it's just a story." The 150 page set up is well worth the reader's time, as it lays the groundwork for much of thewhybehind the narrative, and it also gave me a chance to bond with precious Danny before the shit hit the fan.I may be the last person on the planet to have read this book, but just in case I'm not, I wanted to share some of the things that really hit home with me. Just likeITis, at heart, a disturbing coming-of-age story,The Shiningwas an impeccable tale of extreme cabin fever with a hefty dose of "the destructive nature of alcoholism". When you break it down like that, the supernatural elements actually seem to take a backseat to the very real horror of what it's like living with someone struggling through addiction. I've heard all the stories of how this book helped SK realize his own struggle with alcohol, and I'm inclined to believe it's true as the writing here was heavy laden with emotion and depth.I apologize for ever calling Mr. King over-hyped. I'm grateful my previous experiences with his wordier novels didn't deter me from finally choosing to read this, as it's a gem of a book and a classic in it's genre.I still despise Sleeping Beauties though and refuse to change my opinion on the matter.;) Highly recommended to any other below-the-rock dwellers who may not have happened across this one. Now- to watch the movie or not?