This is basically just another haunted house story...but my, such a great one, Stephen King brings all his considerable talents into view. Though his tendency to overwrite shows too, a little editing would have made it even better by cutting out superfluous pages, nothing wrong in being succinct . If you like ghouls, strange apparitions , an atmosphere thick with foreboding this ride will satisfy, not to mention the continuous party in the Colorado Lounge, where drinks are on the house, with Lloyd the perpetually agreeable gentleman presiding ...A vague bartender who knows how to mix them, wild, crazy , raucous "people" inside, and noisy scenes happening frequently, sounds like fun...Now to begin, John "Jack" Torrance has a little drinking problem, a falling down drunk, to be honest, it wouldn't matter much to anyone, except he is married with a lovely wife Wendy and a good son Danny age five, he the kid, sees things though...which becomes a problem later on. The parents are in their late twenties, Jack has recently lost his job teaching at a prep school , an English instructor in New England, very appropriate. What is not, beating up a spoiled rich student damaging his old car, Jack has a bad temper obviously , and gives no mercy. Let go by the school he desperately needs another job quickly, this is where the ancient Overlook Hotel, in the high Rocky Mountains of Colorado, over 10,000 feet in elevation, becomes important. Jack's best friend Albert Shockley a wealthy man, obtains him the caretaker position there in the winter, he is part owner and fellow lush. A new start for the aspiring writer; five months in isolation with only his rattled family , the roads become impassable because of heavy snows, often blizzards strike the area, Mr. Torrance has the time now to finish his play, that will solve all the difficulties. Nevertheless the Overlook has other ideas not so nice, room 217 for instance, nor is it the only one , the sinister hotel elevator disturbs the occupants, a free spirit , which makes a quite chilling situation there. The three humans in the creepy building, months alone, can cause some to become unbalanced, even maniacal, as the temperature drops and the snowflakes fall, tense Wendy feels uneasy... Terrific novel and the little child, Daniel (Danny) his invisible, unearthly friend, the aloof Tony , dominates the preceding, they are rather a peculiar pair... good or bad is the question, the answer... read the book. However in reality and shall I write these words...the fiendish Overlook Hotel is the star.