This inhuman place makes human monsters.When Jack, an alcoholic 14-months sober, gets offered a job as a caretaker for an old hotel in remote Colorado, he has no choice but to take it. He doesn't have many options - he's been fired from teaching and his play he's been working on is far from finished. He packs up his wife, Wendy, and his psychic five-year-old son, Danny, and waits for the snows to come.The hotel has a Grudge, unfortunately. And Danny's psychic ability is only feeding the Grudge and making it stronger. As the Grudge tries to work it's way into Jack's mind, the possibilities of any of them escaping alive dips toward zero....GRUDGEA Grudge is an evil, murderous presence which is tied to a location. If something terrible happens in a place - someone killing their own family and then committing suicide seems to be the most common trigger - then a Grudge is on the place.This book's Grudge apparently is a conglomerate built up over the near hundred years the hotel has been in existence. It consists of the remains of a Mafia killing, and a caretaker who killed his wife and two daughters and then himself, and a woman who commits suicide after her younger lover leaves her. There's probably a lot more.This Grudge sees Jack, his wife, and most especially his little boy Danny as a kind of all-you-can-eat buffet, personally delivered for its enjoyment. If it can kill Danny, therefore tying him to the hotel, it will become very powerful.TRUE HORRORWell, I don't believe in ghosts. But I sure as heck believe in alcoholic abusive men with tempers. And that is the true horror here. Yes, there is an evil presence in the hotel. Yes, it spurs Jack on to murderous intentions. However, that is not the real problem here.The real problem here is that Jack is a bad person. Yes, he loves his wife. Yes, he loves his child. But he has a terrible temper. I can't even blame the alcohol, although that certainly exacerbates things. But Jack does horrifying things while he's stone-cold sober. And way before he's introduced to the hotel's Grudge. Some examples:- Deliberately screws with the mind of a student he despises. Then denies doing it.- Beats aforementioned student unconscious in a parking lot.- Sympathizes with a man who rapes and murders children.- Has such an uncontrollable urge to beat his wife and child that he has to physically leave the house and drive around the neighborhood so he won't lay hands on them.- He has an extremely external locus of control - nothing is his fault. Everything can be blamed on others. This is very dangerous, especially in a man with temper. He takes absolutely no responsibility for his actions or his position in life. Instead he hates everyone else for "putting him there."All this is sober, and pre-hotel.So don't try to tell me it's the drink! Don't try to tell me that it's the ghosts! Bullshit. This man is already someone you should be crossing the street to avoid.It's very tempting and easy to blame all your problems on your alcoholism. I've seen it a thousand times. Because alcoholism is a serious and damaging disease. It is. And if it weren't for the drink, life would be perfect - you would be perfect. Right? WRONG. And Stephen King does a subtle job of showing that here. Jack Torrance's problem - his real problem - is that he has a bad temper. There is no cure for that. Going sober is not a cure for that (although it will probably help).Being married to and bearing a child with a man like this is the true horror, I think, and not all this bullshit with dead people in the bathtub. I don't think that comes through clearly to a lot of people, who still think this is a novel about ghosts.CHRISTIANOf course, Stephen King is one of the leading Christian authors of our time.Stephen King's absolute belief in God, Satan, angels and demons shines from every page of his horror novels. And this is no exception. Young Danny has 'the shining,' and so does the kindly, black, 62-year-old cook for the hotel. This is described as "psychic" in the book, but it's obvious (especially near the climax) that they are God-touched and warriors in God's fight with Satan. Hmmmm, a kind of human angel or angel-on-earth if you will.People laugh and also scoff when I baldly state King's rightful place as leading Christian author nowadays, but it's completely true. Actually, one of my atheist friends refuses to read King's books for just this reason. "King's books are extremely boring," he says. "It's always the same. Deep, deep evil from hell crops up and God must send someone (usually a little boy, although sometimes that changes) to act as His representative and stop Satan from gaining a foothold."This neatly sums up 98% of King's horror plots.ABUSIVE PARENTSIt's doubly hard for Jack and Wendy to parent because both of them come from abusive homes. Jack's father frequently beat his wife and children, putting them in the hospital. Wendy's mother is verbally and emotionally abusive, ripping Wendy and her accomplishments to shreds at every opportunity. We can see how hard each of these people have to fight against continuing the cycle of abuse and attempt to be good parents to Danny. Wendy largely succeeds... Jack not so much.WENDYI liked this character.Would she stand frozen in terror, or was there enough of the primal mother in her to fight him for her son until one of them was dead? She didn't know. The very thought made her sick - made her feel that her whole life had been a long and easy dream to lull her helplessly into this waking nightmare. She was soft. When trouble came, she slept. Her past was unremarkable. She had never been tried in fire. Now the trial was upon her, not fire but ice, and she would not be allowed to sleep through this. Her son was waiting for her upstairs.Wendy is really put through the wringer, and she performs admirably. I loved her bravery and her struggle to protect Danny. She's terrified, weak, and unskilled - but she doesn't let this stop her from doing what she has to do. Well done.THINGS I DIDN'T LIKE- Giant hedge animals coming to life and trying to kill people is laughable. Even a master-author like King cannot convince me that this is scary. It's just dumb.- I really did not like the final showdown between little Danny and his(view spoiler)[dead, Grudge-possessed(hide spoiler)]father. It rang false. I couldn't believe he was(view spoiler)[having a rational conversation with it and talking it down. Bullshit. Complete bullshit. Then it leaves to run down to the boiler instead of murdering him. Stupid and unrealistic.(hide spoiler)]So, that was very disappointing.Tl;dr - A great book, full of nuance and delicate shading. The writing is excellent, the plot as a whole is fascinating. Besides the disappointing, dumb aspect of the climax which I discussed in the above paragraph, this is an overall success.I'm reading all of King's books in order, and of the three I've read, I would rank them:1.) Carrie2.) 'Salem's Lot3.) The ShiningThis has been the weakest of the three. But still spectacular. I would highly recommend it.