Delee?Yes Danny...Do you feel bad?No Danny, I just really hated your performance in the movie version of THE SHINING.Really Delee?Yes Danny, I hated it more than anything else in the whooole wiiiiide woooorld.I know this is supposed to be a review of the novel THE SHINING, and not the movie...but I can't review the book on its own. I tried...I really did.I first read THE SHINING just before the movie came out on video- some time in the 80s- because usually if I watch the movie first, it is very rare that I go back and read the book- I remember liking it quite a bit, but over the years the movie and the book seemed to have blended into each other in my head. I had only read the book once...but I have watched the movie zillions of times. (okay maybe not zillions...but a lot).Stanley Kubrick version of THE SHINING is visually stunning- no doubt about it- you can tell that Kubrick was a photographer first and foremost. That is what I love about it, and why I go back and watch it over and over again...but character wise he failed miserably. Danny was horrible- The finger talking , and the voice of Tony made me cringe. Movie Wendy (Shelley Duvall-) was sad, weak and pathetic, and Jack Nicholson- as Jack Torrance made the character crazy right from the get go. I never once believed that Jack ever loved his wife and son.Kubrick also took out much of the supernatural in the movie, making it more of a mental breakdown of Jack's character, than influence from a haunted hotel. So for anyone thinking that because they watched the movie, they know the book. They are dead wrong.I went back and re-read THE SHINING after reading Dr. Sleep- the sequel, and continuation of Danny Torrance's life. I decided it was time to once again re-visit Danny's childhood. There was so much I had forgotten and mixed up having watched the movie so many times.The novel follows Jack Torrance, a recovering alcoholic and writer. After losing his teaching job, Jack decides to accept a position as the caretaker of the Overlook Hotel during the off season. Coming with him are- Wendy- his wife, and Danny- his five year old son (who has psychic abilities). After a winter storm cuts the family off from the outside world- evil forces from the hotel's past, and Jack's own troubled history- start to drive him slowly insane- leaving Wendy, Danny, and Jack in incredible danger.Stephen King wrote THE SHINING when he was in his late twenties and still in his drinking phase. I think that Jack Torrance was the closest King ever came to writing his own true persona from those years, and I can see why he was so disturbed with Kubrick's interpretation. Gone was the strong beautiful wife, gone was the gifted, smart and lovable son, and gone was the sympathetic main character who tried so hard to redeem himself.Suspenseful, thrilling and terrifying- this was a fabulous read...even the second time around.