It's funny how things often come in pairs.BraveheartandRob Roy.ArmageddonandDeep Impact.Dangerous LiaisonsandValmont. And quite often, the better one of the pair isn't the one that ends up becoming famous.Flowers for Algernon's twin is Thomas Disch'sCamp Concentration. Both novels were published within a few months of each other. Both are first-person narratives, presented as a series of diary entries written by the main character. Both address the same question: suppose a medical procedure were invented that could make people much, much smarter. What would happen?Now given the rules of the game, how are you going to present the narrator getting smarter? Keyes picked the obvious solution: in this book, Charlie Gordon starts off real dumb. You read the early entries in his dirie, and he rites like thiss. hees ilitrate and he dont even no wot it means. but hes a good guy with a big hart.Charlie is given the procedure, and he starts getting smarter. Of course, it's technically quite easy for Keyes to show his vocabulary, grammar and spelling improving, and the way he gains more insight into his situation. The trickiest thing in the book is the romance. Charlie's always had a crush on the nice teacher at his evening class, but he's never been able to do a thing about it. Now he's able to put the moves on her. But as he gets more and more intelligent, he finds he's outgrown her. He meets a brilliant woman artist and starts up a new relationship with her.At the apex of his trajectory, Charlie is a world-class scientist. He turns his intelligence on himself and learns that his brilliance is only temporary. Soon, he will lose all his new powers. He will inexorably descend the curve again, and before long he will be as dumb as he was at the beginning. Shortly after that, he will die. He dispassionately presents all these discoveries in a scientific paper.Not long after, the decline begins. He can no longer read the things he's just written. His relationship with the artist is over. The most heart-rending scene is when he's returned to his old level: forgetful and confused, he goes back to his evening class and sees the nice teacher again, not even remembering their brief affair. She runs out of the room weeping, and he can't quite figure out why. In the last diary entry, he half-understands that he is a few days from death, and leaves instructions to the person who finds the diary.Keyes has a clear plan in mind and succeeds well in what he sets out to do. The book is quite well known, got made into a movie, and has even ended up on school reading lists. But Disch wanted to try something much riskier. His hero starts out, not just normal, but already pretty smart. Moreover, he's a writer, though admittedly not a very successful one. Now what would you get when you took a smart writer and made him enormously smarter? How would you depict thatthrough the medium of his own writing?It's obviously impossible, andCamp Concentrationhas indeed never become famous. Of the few people that look at it, most remain deeply unimpressed; Not, who read it last week on my recommendation (sorry, Not!) found it pretentious and boring. But somehow I prefer Disch's ambitious failure to Keyes's easy success. Keyes engages my emotions, but Disch manages to hit me somewhere deeper down. Perhaps it's a more interesting kind of tragedy.