On IntelligenceAre there any qualities that should make a man consider himself superior from other humans? In medieval times, a physically strong man would consider himself superior to physically weaker one. A rich person would look down upon a poor person. And a more attractive person would consider himself to one who wasn't - and those with physical handicaps like a hunchback, blind or deaf would be made to face prejudice. A lot of it is still true but now I think at least now the best of minds don't think that physical strength, good looks or wealth don't make a person superior and that these qualities are largely things one is born with - gifts from God, chance or nature according to your belief.But it isn't so with intelligence (actually 'intelligence' as the word is popularly used - to mean logical intelligence and good memory; there are other forms of intelligence - read about themhere; needless to say I am dumb in all of them) - we still think intelligence as something hard earned rather than a gift. Schools still rank children in terms of their supposed intelligence and no one complains about it creating inferiority complex that it might breed in children, the way many parents would if children were ranked according to their looks. Hannah Arendt in one of her books talked about Germans who seemed to regret the loss of geniuses (like Einstein for example) more than the other millions who died at the concentration camp. Another far less strong example is those thousands of Indian fans who think that crimes of some of the actors should be forgiven because of their genius in acting.Personally, I don't think being intelligent makes a person superior. It does, however, create a superiority complex. All it does like many other qualities is to make a person better qualified for some jobs. And I'm tired of people who think it is the only quality that matters. One keeps hearing these self-claimed intellectuals complain about others whom they consider less intelligent (what they real mean is less knowledgeable) of themselves getting jobs at their expense on account of their good looks and interaction skills (which are often qualities that jobs need more than mere knowledge).Now think, our schools exams, at least in India, measure only three qualities - memory and ability to logic and linguistic skills. There are several other forms of intelligence that are simply ignored. If an Einstein failed exams in this kind of system. What chance did Charlie Gorden have?It did, however, earn him a hard life. There is, of course, somewhere talk IQ tests which measure the very same three qualities and so he has a low IQ. Don't you think he would have a higher IQ if some other qualities were also included in tests? Maybe, it isn't the students who are failing. Maybe it is a failure of examiners. Charlie wish to be more intelligent was result of her mother's wishing so much the same thing, and her mother tried to force him to study too much because she lived in a society where intelligence is thought of result of hard work rather than a gift.This book has proved thoughts on a lot of other themes but I will focus only on one more.On Lab ratsWhere I live, there is a saying that one should be kind be to bezuban (the ones who can't speak - a word used for animals) because their reproaches are the first to be heard in the netherworld. And so using animals for experiments which will only benefit humans doesn't suit to me. But then what are the alternatives? because progress inScience has done a lot of good. what are our alternatives?Using humans? One alternative I know from Friends is that they offer money to people who will volunteer to take experimental drugs, but I think of it as nothing but economic slavery.That there have been times in history when humans were forced to act as subjects of experiments is hardly a secret. And that has been especially so in case of mentally retarded people. Many governments in past have considered sterilizing them forcefully. At least, Nazis for one had actually done it.And the subject is more tricky than you think. I think a lot of abuse is done to them - and the underdogs of the society in general in name of their own good. And so, diseased animals are killed so that their fellow animals won't catch the disease. Women are asked not to go out in open for their own safety. Nazis decided to give a 'merciful death' to all mental patients and called it Euthanasia. And even if one doesn't believe in paradise, there are other reasons to be warned as this was really stepping on a slippery slope down the hill of morality - because it was this very technique of mass assassination that was later used for Final Solution in concentration camps