I have never written a review like this before but this book truly inspired me.So I just finished reading "Tuesdays With Morrie". What a wonderful book, I couldn't put it down! I cannot even imagine going through the last stages of my own life and being as brave (for lack of a better word in my head right now) as Morrie. He was filled with such happiness and joy in his own life. He had regrets but realized that it is ok as long as you can reconcile with yourself in the end. I'm not the type of person to find quotes in the literature I read. However, as I turned page after page through this book and submersed myself into the text I was reading I found myself getting out of bed in the middle of the night to find some post-its only to tag so many different paragraphs and pages that inspired me or had me think about things in my own life.The idea of detaching oneself from emotions just baffled me. I myself fell in love and was heart broken in the end. I felt, and sometimes still feel, that I never want to experience such pain and heartache again. But Morrie says it best "If you hold back on the emotions - if you don't allow yourself to go through them - you can never get to being detached, you're too busy being afraid. You're afraid of the pain, you're afraid of the grief. You're afraid of the vulnerability that loving entails. But by throwing yourself into these emotions, by allowing your self to dive right in, all the way, over your head even, you experience them fully and completely. You know what pain is. You know what love is. You know what grief is. And only then can you say, 'All right. I have experienced that emotion. I recognize that emotion. Now I need to detach from that emotion for a moment.'" Who would have thought it is ok to show emotions as long as one does not stay with that emotion for too long.Another quote that I find so enlightening... "In the beginning of life, when we are infants, we need others to survive, right? And at the end of life, when you get like me, you need others to survive right?... But here's the secret: in between, we need others as well." This line in the book had me stop and think about everything I have in my life rather than anything I am "missing" in life. WHy should we focus on not having that special someone when truly many of us have multiple people in our lives who care for us and will be there for us in the end. Although Morrie does go on to say that everyone should find that love to marry. But why do we need to? I know that there are people who would take care of me later in life. Those that will be there for me always. While I hope to find my "true love" I still am blessed for those I have met in the past to years. I am only ashamed that I never saw them sitting right there in front of me until I read this book. Thank you for being there for me everyone! And, I hope for many more days spent with all of you and even more people to share my life with.