Given the popularity ofTuesdays with MorriebyMitch Albom, I'm surprised I only just read it this week. It's been in my queue for years, but I never had a copy and for some reason, I just didn't buy it. Earlier this year, I found a copy on my apartment building's bookshelf, so I snatched it up and included it in my September TBR list. I enjoyed it a lot, but it wasn't as good as I expected it to be. Knowing how much you can take away from the messages, I ended up with 4.5 stars even though part of me thought it could have pushed the envelope a bit more. Then again, it is almost 15 years old and this type of literature has only become popular in recent years. For its time (minimal social media or digital blogs!), it was pretty motivating.Rather than critique the book, I've decided to focus more on the messages within it. Life is short. You should remember the valuable things when you're in the latter stages approaching death. Perhaps if you develop a terminal illness, you've been given an opportunity to squeeze in as much as possible before you do actually pass on. It seems odd to phrase it in such a manner, but rather than just die unexpectedly, you have a rough time period in your head... you can try to achieve a few goals and make whatever changes you can before it's too late. Of course, a terminal illness comes with extraordinarily negative impacts, but I'd prefer to focus on the benefits you can reap from the messages in such a book.It's not important how clean your house is, tho I often obsess over it. It doesn't matter if you traveled the world and saw amazing things when you don't have anyone you love by your side. And you're not gonna focus on the little things in those last few moments. So make the most of it... find people you care for and share your feelings. That's basically the gist of the autobiographical work on a very cursory level. Albom goes back and forth between his younger days with Morrie and his older days with Morrie, and as readers, we see the change in him across time.I kinda feel like this was one big way to accomplish a goal, but we can also implement his ideas in smaller form across each day. That's where I found the greatest lessons in his words. I'm on a kick to read a few more of his books this fall, too.