*Important update, 8/13/2011: I read this book a year and a half ago and gave it five stars. LikeEvermore, I don't feel like rereading the book to assign it a rating more akin to my current tastes. If I did I would probably give it three or four stars. You can read my review from a long time ago below, though I would recommend reading other more cultivated reviews...Nora Gray is the typical over-achieving high school girl in the sense that she aims to go Yale, has a best friend, and has a somewhat dysfunctional family. Even her name seems synonymous with plain and simple. However, the reasons that Nora isn't the typical high school girl are many: she is independent, even at her age, because her mom travels a lot after her dad passed away. Her best friend Vee is obsessed with all the things Nora chooses to ignore - boys, shopping, and drama. And Nora is about to experience her first taste of real danger in the delectable Patch Cipriano, the sexy, mysterious boy she finds herself sitting next to in biology class one morning. Patch radiates tall, dark, and handsome, and the following day Nora realizes that she seems to be seeing him... everywhere.Hush, Hushdeserved a much better synopsis than that. However, it's difficult to entail all the things in the plot that make the book magnificent without spoilers appearing. So that will have to do. Even though the multiple summaries of the book and maybe even the book jacket allude to this book being the typical "girl meets dangerous boy" type or ordeal, it isn't. It really isn't.I have to gush about Patch. Once again I don't want to give anything a way so my description might be vague but he's the type that would make any teenage girl or maybe even questioning boy swoon and blush along with Nora. He was the epitome of sexy and mysterious without overdoing it, he never became too much like other guys in other YA fiction, he was always dark and throughout the book questionable in a mysteriously appealing way. Patch Cipriano is just... wow. Definitely in my top 10 male characters of all time.Also, I really enjoyed Nora and Vee's friendship. Everything they did together, whether is was arguing about boys or skipping out on their diets together was just so real, and never forced. As a teenager I could easily distinguish between an author trying to hard to create a friendship, and an author who really hits the nail on the head. Fitzpatrick did just that - I always looked forward to and enjoyed their shared dialogue. Actually, all the characters in this book were great and more than just one-dimensional archetypes. Even the antagonist, who is sure to surprise readers by the end of the novel.The plot... wow, it was amazing. The story hooked me in and never let me go. I've said this about other novels butHush, Hushwas absolutely terrific. Even the most simple scenes were described with an underlying sense of terror and intrigue, the whole book flowed together smoothly and there were never dull moments or overstated moments.So taking all things into consideration I would recommend this book to... everyone. I think it's important to get the point across that this book isn't a typical girl meets boy love story with a dark edge, it's much more than that. It has all the elements that make reading a book worthwhile - fascinating descriptions of scenery, terrific writing, intriguing characters, and an addicting plot that includes a modern civilization intertwined with a supernatural world.