This book is very imaginative I'll give the author that much at least. I don't know if I liked the story so much as the way it was written. Don't get me wrong, the story was very creative and it made you think, but he wrote so poetically it was hard for the words not to sink into your soul. The story was about a old crippled man named Eddie. Eddie worked at an amusement park called Ruby Pier and he was the head maintenance worker. The book starts on the day of his death. There was this little girl in the amusement park and her mom had left her alone so she could go on the rides with only her boyfriend and not her daughter. There was this ride at Ruby Pier called Freddy's Free Fall and it is one of those rides that you're at the top of a really tall pole and it just let's the cart drop and it's really fast until something catches it and you slow down right at the very end. So anyway, as Eddie is doing his rounds Freddy's Free Fall breaks and the cable is starting to snap (but nobody knows this yet) and there are people at the top and Eddie goes and tells his co-worker to get the people out of the cart and then to let the cart drop. But then as his coworker has gotten everyone out of the cart and preparing to let it drop Eddie realizes that it's the cable and if they let the cart drop, the cable will snap and it will fall off its tracks into the crowd of people that had formed below. Eddie tries to yell to his coworker but he doesn't hear him and so Eddie yells to the crowd to get back. The people listen...all except for the little girl. So as his coworker lets the cart down Eddie runs to save her but as soon as the cart falls on him, he feels two little hands in his. He doesn't know if he saves her. Then he has to go to heaven and meet five people that will explain to him about his life. I think this book was very inspiring. I was surprised at the ending and I thought that is was very good. I just really enjoyed reading Mitch Albom's work mainly I think because of the poetry. It was written in a very captivating style. I think that my favorite phrase that the author used was to describing Eddie. "...this was who he was and who he would always be, a man with sand in his shoes in a world of mechanical laughter and grilled frankfurters." Mechanical laughter and grilled frankfurters. This book should be read by anyone and everyone and although it is not very religious, it really made me think about life and life after death. VERY GOOD READ!