A couple of weeks back, a disgruntled former senior inspectorRolando Mendozafrom the Manila Police District shot and killedeightHong Kong tourists ending the hostage crisis drama that lasted for around 10 hours. This took place at the Quirino Grandstand in the heart of Manila, Philippines. The whole nation was stunned while watching the images unfolding on TV screens. The whole world watched with us as the events are covered by CNN. Mendoza's demand was for him to get his job back. He was about to retire in a year's time when he was kicked out from the service due to allegation of extortion.Each of us, including me, quickly say Mendoza is wrong. It is wrong to extort (forcibly ordering a chef to eat cocaine!). It is wrong to carry a firearm (he was no longer in service). It is wrong to take people as hostages (especially tourists!). It is wrong to kill (eight innocent unarmed foreigners!).But... have we heard his side? (he is already dead) Have we at least heard the people he was close with? Do we know exactly what went into his mind why he did those senseless and brutal shootings?That is whatTruman Capote(1924-1984) did in hisnonfiction novel, published in 1966,In Cold Blood. He was so good at it that my heart cried for the killer,Perry Smith. Yes, the murder of the wholeClutter familyof Holcomb, Kansas in 1959 was wrong. Smith and his partner,Dick Hickockshould not have gone to the house with the intent of robbing the family. Then when they did not find the safe (supposed to contain US$10,000), Smith shot each of the people in that house (they ended up getting a measly amount of US$50, a binocular and a portable radio). I felt total raging hatred for Smith and Hickock. But when their own life stories were presented by Capote, at first I did not know what to feel (he came from a broken family, he grew up with strangers, his father humiliated him, all he wanted was to have a good education, when he was small he cried looking up at the moon as he thought it was so beautiful). Until that scene when Smith was taken back to his cell after the verdict was given. That scene when he extended his hands so the warden's wife could hold them... That scene followed by the one with the squirrel missing Smith in his cell... Capote's narration reaches out to your heart so that it bleeds pity and empathy for awrongperson.The book screams to us: iscapital punishmentright or wrong? Prior to this book, I used to react to this question with a shrug and "yes, it is right". Then I normally add that as a father, I feel the pain of my daughter whenever she cries (due to sickness or whatever), etc. In short, no debate needed, I was totally in the side of the victim (pp.336"I believe in hanging. Just so long as I'm not the one being hanged"). However, in this book, Capote opened my eyes to the other side of the argument: the background of the killer (he is also a victim of the society, he could be schizophrenic: feeling totally detached from himself at the time of the killing, taking the killer's life does not give him opportunity to change, taking the killer's life is apure and simple act ofrevenge).I bought this book from a second-hand bookstore at P50 (around US$1) last year. My brother says that we used to have a copy of this when we were kids in the province. He also says that my late father read and liked this so he read it too. I was young then and not interested in literature. Last Wednesday was my father's 13th Death Anniversary so as my way of remembering him, I picked this from my to-be-read pile. One good decision I made. This book is life-changing.I have 51 friends here in Goodreads. More than half of them are Filipinos. Some of them are Americans or Europeans. Not a single one of my Filipino friends has this in any of his or her folders (read, marked-to-read, currently-reading, wish-to-read, etc). None. All the Americans and Europeans have read this book and rated this with either a 5 or a 4. Last Friday, I saw brand-new copies in a popular bookstore. Oftentimes, I also see many second-hand copies in other bookstores. It is not thick (only 343 pages) and it is an easy read.My theory: there are so many killings and murders in the Philippines that Filipinos are either desensitized already or Filipinos are fun-loving people so we do not want to read books or watch movies that we already experience in real life.My opinion: this is wrong. We need good books likeIn Cold Bloodto widen our perspective on important issues like in this case, capital punishment. For all we know, we could have already set biases and prejudices clouding our judgment and views. In fact, in one of the TV news programs last week, I saw no less than SenatorMiguel Zubiricalling for the return of capital punishment in the country.I am not saying that Rolando Mendoza was right in taking those tourists as hostages and killing them in the end. No! All I am saying is that we should not be too quick to pass judgment on him or the likes of him. Voices should be heard.