Hello Chuck,It's me again.Remember, I wrote to you about Choke? It wasn't long ago.So I just read Fight Club.Uh huh I know I was slow off the mark.This book came out in 1997.What have I been doing with my time?Well this book came out when I was sixteen and at that time, I have to admit Chuck, I was mostly trying to disappear up my own ass by reading things like Milan Kundera's The Unbearable Lightness of Being and On the Road by Kerouac.It's not easy to get angsty when you're...well... a bit middle class.Maybe it's a good thing I didn't read this when I was sixteen.There's a real danger that instead of vacuously pondering life as a beatnik and contemplating hopping on a rail road car, I'd have been off somewhere burning myself with lye and asking random strangers to punch me.Sometimes random strangers punch me anyway, but I don't think it's because of your book.Anyway I saw the film first and although some people might say that this detracts from their enjoyment it was OK cos I got to read and have a simultaneous scene by scene re-enactment by Ed Norton and Brad Pitt just for me inside my own little thinky thing. Like having a telly box where my brain should be.That was pretty neat.So, in my last letter I thought it would be cool if maybe you did something about books. After all none of your characters so far seem to have been overly literate. What d'y'reckon?It could start like this:The first rule of book club is that you don't write about book club... I think you see where I'm going with this.You could combine two core elements and end up with old ladies bashing each other over the head with hardback copies of Barbara Taylor Bradford novels? I would definitely read this.Anyway I liked Fight Club a lot. I liked all the home recipes tips for making your own soap and baking and gardening and nitroglycerine. You're kind of a Martha Stewart for the next generation Chuck. By the way, I'm sad that you never wrote me back. Will you write me back the next time? Although come to think of it, you and I are never in the same room together... does that strike you as weird Chuck?