Larry McMurtry is considered one of America's master story tellers. His novels include Terms of Endearment and The Last Picture Show, as well as the screenplay to Brokeback Mountain, which later became award winning films. A revered author in Texas, he was invited by former First Lady Laura Bush to be a special guest speaker at the first annual Texas Book Festival. It seems fitting that I began his definitive work, Pulitzer winning Lonesome Dove, on his birthday, June 3. A story of Texas Rangers and winning the western frontier, which later encouraged McMurtry to create a tetralogy, Lonesome Dove is considered the foremost work of American western fiction.Augustus "Gus" McCrae and Woodrow F. Call ride as Texas Rangers for nearly thirty years, keeping the new state safe from Indians, Mexicans, and ruffians following the completion of the Civil War. By the time of the volume's opening, however, Mexicans decided to stay on their side of the Rio Grande and most Indians had cleared out of south Texas, leaving the area to law abiding citizens. Even though the two never tired completely of rangering, they founded the Hat Creek Outfit, a stables outside of Lonesome Dove, a settlement close to the Mexican border. It is here that McCrae and Call got their team of Rangers back together for one final adventure before they ride off into the sunset.Creating a large cast of characters and multiple storylines that eventually meet up, McMurtry creates a western novel that is more than the story of cowboys and Indians. Former ranger Jake Spoon, a good guy turned outlaw, convinced Call to move thousands of cattle and start the first ranch north of the Milk River in Montana. At the time unexplored territory, Call is up for the challenge and assembles a team of cowboys to make the journey north. The group, full of colorful personalities, got more than they bargained for on the trip. Most thought it was to be a journey, get paid, and then return home to Lonesome Dove. They did not sign up for river crossings, sandstorms, and skirmishes with Indians and grizzly bears. Yet, Call desires to conquer virgin territory and make a name for himself as one of the pioneers of the Montana land grab.McCrae signs up for the journey as a last hurrah with his lifelong friend. Yet even he gets more than he asked for on the trip. A carefree persona happy to sit back with a glass of whiskey and a deck of cards, McCrae would rather be outside a saloon in Lonesome Dove than on a two thousand mile journey north. Yet, the thought of seeing the love of his life Clara Allen at the midway point of the trek, spurs McCrae to join up. Along the way, he saves a whore named Lorena from a vile Indian named Blue Duck and becomes her guardian, only to find himself when he meets with Clara once and for all. This story line tugged on my emotions the most as McMurtry weaves multiple characters' stories together to form a nexus at Clara's ranch. It is here that both the cowboys and their loves must make key decisions that are vital to the duration of the novel.McMurtry makes Lonesome Dove more than just a story of cowboys by informing his readers of key events that have taken place to change the course of the American west. He touches on the plight of the Indians who in the 1870s are still fighting off the cavalry and cowboys for control of the great land grab. The army, settlers, and Indians all think that the land belongs to them, setting the stage for epic battle scenes, none as brutal as those involving Blue Duck. He also has the cowboys in their dialogue describe how if they are not careful all of the buffalo will be gone soon, so the men enjoy watching and running with the great creatures while they are still able. McMurtry also touches on the place of women in society as he describes in detail the characters of Lorena, Clara, and a wandering soul named Elmira. All three are limited in choices between marriage and whoring, and in the end Clara desires a brighter future for both Lorena and her two daughters.While I enjoyed the multiple story lines, the place of women, the character studies, and history, the journey from Texas to Montana is what kept me reading this volume. At 750 pages in length, the novel is fast reading as I desired to see the resolution of this complex story that McMurtry has created. Now that I have completed and left behind Lonesome Dove, I am ready to return again as the writing was captivating and held my attention throughout. As I attempt to read through the Pulitzers, I view Lonesome Dove as one of the best. I hope to return to the tetralogy at some point, but I would like to savor this 5 star read for awhile first.