I've always had a soft spot for western movies. In high school, I roped my friends into watching the ones starring this guy:Later, I swooned over the epic starring this guy:Westerns haven't featured heavily in my reading life, but Cormac McCarthy sure got my attention last year withAll the Pretty HorsesandNo Country for Old Men.This one, written in 1985, and winner of the Pulitzer prize, is about a million pages long. So you gotta love westerns if you're gonna love this. Cowboys, guns, whores, whiskey and plenty of adventure, much of it involving man vs. the elements. If that ain't your bag, you've come to the wrong saloon.As I was saying, this book is a zillion pages long, and it takes about 17 million of them for the story to actually start. So the beginning ispainfullyslow. Twenty six chapters go by before the characters pick up and leave Lonesome Dove for their grand undertaking - bringing their cattle to set up a ranch in Montana.I struggled with the slow beginning, and was a little bit underwhelmed by the plain prose, until in section 3, when I came to a belated realisation of what I was actually reading: a STORY. I know this sounds really stupid, like duh, what did I think I was reading? I guess the Pulitzer label and the 5-star constellations that abound for this book had me expecting something different. But what this is, ladies and gents, is a high calibre, old-fashioned STORY. No fancy writing, but an epic, all-American adventure, filled with characters who get under your skin in the most insidious manner.It sneaks up on you, but before you know it, you suffer when they suffer, your heart soars when they succeed, you understand and forgive when they fail. And you wish you had about an ounce of their grit - because these men and women are all tougher in their sleep than I could ever be on my toughest day.I think I still prefer McCarthy's style (though McMurtry gets just as dark and violent), because of the poetic depth in his writing, plus he gets there in far less pages. But I tip my hat to Larry McMurtry - what an accomplishment! Yee haw!!