"There is no lake at Camp Green Lake."Quick backstory: this is one of my thirteen year old brother's favourite books. He was the one who recommended it to me. And I'm glad he did, because this book is one heck of a gripping, entertaining and intelligent story. This is the book all the cool kids in middle school were reading with their popped collars, Livestrong bands and wannabe-Justin-Bieber hairstyles. This book is just on this whole new level of awesomeness. and, keep in mind that I say this without sarcasm - this book is timeless and, what I'd even consider, a middle-grade classic."When you spend your whole life living in a hole, the only way you can go is up."The story basically revolves around this kid, called Stanley, who is accused of theft and gets sent to this juvenile camp found in some wasteland desert in the middle of nowhere, called - ironically - Camp Green Lake. Things go a little askew and nothing is as it seems, secrets are revealed, friends and enemies are made, adventures are at stake... lot's of good stuff."'Now you be careful in the real world,' said Armpit. 'Not everyone is as nice as us.'"This book is technically "middle-grade" and that is definitely noticeable when reading, but I think anyone, at any age can read it, empathize with the characters, and just simply get totally drawn into their complex stories. The writing is notable, quirky, detailed and "crisp" - if that makes sense; the atmosphere generated is phenomenal - the sun glaring down at you in sweaty films of heat, the dust shading the air, this seemingly endless desolate wasteland. Sachar is the kind of writer that isn't preachy - he won't shove some wisdom or moral code down your throat, but he'll make you think and reflect and enjoy yourself while doing so."Rattlesnakes would be a lot more dangerous if they didn't have the rattle."This story dives in and out of the present, chipping in stories from Stanley's ancestors, which intertwine with the present. Themes, such as fate, friendship, punishment, and the way history impacts our present are all very prominent in the story - paired with fleshed-out, intriguing characters, yellow spotted lizards, lots (and I mean - LOTS) of holes, sunflower seeds, angry wardens, baseball player shoes and treasure. Highly recommend!"If only, if only," the woodpecker sighs, "The bark on the tree was just a little bit softer."While the wolf waits below, hungry and lonely,He cries to the moo-oo-oon,"If only, if only."