This book is long. Everything about it feels long--from the words, to the sentences, to the scenes. Given that it was serially published -- meaning Dumas made his money by the word -- it's obvious why it's so damn long. But trust me,this story is NOT a waste of time.What it is--is everything. What starts as a thriller, becomes a Game of Thrones-style soap opera, and finishes as a murder mystery. It's a revenge story, in theory, but more than anything it's about love. It's really an existential coming-of-age for adults. The length of seven books,The Count of Monte Cristocontains nearly as many themes and plots and characters. Probably, it covers twice as many subjects. It's basically a Bible.Something tricky about it is that the first hundred and some pages are absolutely phenomenal. The story starts better than just about anything else, which kind of surprised me. For something of this length, I expected it to be slow--and at times it is--but the beginning is definitely a page turner, one that doesn't read dated at all, which again surprised me. This book is like two hundred years old and translated from French--and while at times it's as head-scratching as Shakespeare--the beginning feels like reading a really good Michael Crichton book.Edmond Dantes / The Count of Monte Cristo is, logically, the first character introduced. He's incredibly likable from the start: he's 19, has his shit together, treats his father like gold, is madly in love, and excellent at his job. In short, there's a Disney story ahead of him. Just thinking about it is exciting, until in quick succession several extremely unlikable characters are introduced whom all conspire against him. They're jealous little evil bitches and they plot and scheme, and as their deeds unfold, the story becomes a thriller. Unfortunately, the characters that start the book are definitely the best, beside one or two others. Fortunately, after they throw a giant fork into Dantes' road, they don't just disappear. No, this is a revenge story. They come back and get what they got coming to 'em.The problems start to arise after the first 300 or so pages, after Dantes gets screwed, suffers, loses hope, becomes bitter, and transcends into the Count of Monte Cristo. After this, about 15 new characters are introduced, only one of whom really measures up to the previous cast. Dumas spends the next 500 pages of the story predominately fleshing out these characters in the form of a soap opera, which is frustrating. The previous ones are so good, you're way more eager to learn about them. It feels like you're getting off topic, lost in new characters that only fit into the story tangentially by theme. And, although this part isn't necessarily bad or insufferable, compared to the thrilling first act, this soap opera seems that way. It doesn't help that this part of the story is when the language dates itself, the sentences grow to their longest, the dialogue seems like one soliloquy after another, and the words they speak are plain archaic. The story seems to go downhill, quickly picking up steam, ultimately headed for a nasty crash and burn.It doesn't. If the first hundred pages aren't the best in all of literature, it's only because the last hundred are somehow even better. All of the crazy complexity Dumas writes into the second act of the story comes together in the third. What seemed to only tangentially fit into the story becomes the glue that holds together a masterpiece. And when The Count of Monte Cristo starts exacting his revenge you spent 900 pages eagerly anticipating, of course it's satisfying as hell. What makes it even better is seeing Edmond Dantes resurface himself in the ugly skin of Monte Cristo. After all his misery has made his existence merely to put others through worse (albeit somewhat justifiably), you start to love him again, and he shows thatThe Count of Monte Cristoisn't a simple revenge story that went on for way too long. No, it's much more than that.But if you want to know, you'll just have to read it for yourself.Wait and hope, my friend,wait and hope.