I decided in January to spend a year reading classics that I never wanted to read. I joined a classics reading group and carefully chose books that I thought I would like, and am thrilled to say that I have read some wonderful stories. I gave books likeEast of Eden,Wuthering Heights,The Odyssey, andThe Master and Margaritaa solid 4 stars because I thought they were fantastic. I gave books likeHamlet,Bleak House, andThe Idiot5 stars because they are those rare books that change lives. They definitely changed mine.Using those criteria, I would giveThe Count of Monte Cristoa squintillion stars if I could. This is not only the best book I have read this year, it easily surpassed my favorite book of all time. I remember when I finished the last sentence ofHarry Potter and the Deathly Hallowsand I cried so hard because it was all over. I wanted to forget that I had read it and start over to experience that amazingness again for the first time. This is the first novel I have read since then that made me feel the same way.This is a story of a young sailor who had everything going for him: a good mind, a good soul, the respect of his crew, a future job as a captain, the confidence of his boss, the adoration of his father, and the love of a beautiful woman who had promised to be his wife. In an instant, and truly in just the first few chapters of this very long novel, all that was taken from him by a bunch of envious, jealous, and greedy shitwad bastards whoDESERVED TO DIE THE MOST HORRIBLE DEATHS FOR WHAT THEY DID................ I'm sorry, I guess I got a bit emotional there.Actually, I got emotional through this entire novel. I cried; I cheered; I laughed. I went to sleep thinking about the characters and woke up thinking about revenge. I wanted to find a way to go back in time and burn down France for a fictional character. The author did an admirable job of putting me right in the story and feeling the hatred, love, fear, sympathy, and all the other feels that the characters experienced. This is a novel that will put your emotions through the ringer.This is also a novel that will make you think and question. How far is it okay to go? When do you stop? For whom do you stop? Is this okay? Is God on the side of the good guys or the bad guys? Who are the good guys and who are the bad guys? Does checking out from humanity protect you or isolate you? What happens when you want to return, and how do you get there?As The Count himself said, "All human wisdom is contained in these two words: 'wait' and 'hope'!"Here are my words of wisdom: Read the unabridged version translated by Robin Buss. It has a chapter that many versions leave out, and that chapter, at least to me, is vital.