"Why read the classics?" asks Italo Calvino in an essay that I know about, but I haven't yet read. My own attempt at an answer is that they are the foundation our current culture and worldview are based on. In another approximate quote that right now I am unable to source correctly : we are able to look further into the world because we are standing on the shoulders of giants. Alexandre Dumas is one of these giants, often mischaracterized as a simple adventure peddler or as a young adult oriented author, a victim of his own huge popularity. Like many other young boys, I have been thoroughly enchanted by the humorous and daring deeds of the three-plus-one musketeers, but I was wary of picking up the much bulkier tome describing the trials and tribulations of the Count of Monte Cristo. Why bother spending weeks struggling with the kitten-squisher, when there are already several movie versions available? and why waste my time with a book for children when I can read some 'serious' stuff? The same Italo Calvino suggested a special shelf in the bookstore for this kind of famous novel :Books That Everybody's Read So It's As If You Had Read Them, Too". The actual content is a lot more mature and philosophical than I expected :(view spoiler)[ as the introduction mentions : "There are not many children's books, even in our own time, that involve a female serial poisoner, two cases of infanticide, a stabbing and three suicides; an extended scene of torture and execution; drug-induced sexual fantasies, illegitimacy, transvestism and lesbianism; a display of the author's classical learning, and his knowledge of modern European history, the customs and diet of the Italians, the effects of hashish, and so on."(hide spoiler)]With such a famous subject, inclusion of a synposis and a warning of spoilers should be superfluous, but here's both : Reading further may expose you to spoilers!VVVVVVVA young sailor from Marseille named Edmont Dantes is falsely accused of being a traitor and a spy for Napoleon, exiled on the island of Elba at the time. On the eve of his bethrotal, Edmont is sent to the Chateau d'If prison where he will spend almost two decades locked in a solitary dungeon. After a daring escape and helped by the discovery of a hidden treasure, he will return to France to exact his revenge from the people who betrayed him.He was a young man of between eighteen and twenty, tall, slim, with fine dark eyes and ebony-black hair. His whole demeanour possessed the calm and resolve peculiar to men who have been accustomed from childhood to wrestle with danger.The novel, judged with the eyes of a Millenial, is showing its age : the language is often excessively lurid; a good editor could probably cut at least a third of the page count without losing anything essential; the plot twists can be spotted from a mile away; some characters are lacking depth and subtlety in their assignation on the good or evil side of the spectrum. Yet, the subject itself is not only epic, but timeless, as proven in the numerous modern adaptations and re-tellings (like "The Stars My Destination"). Edmont Dantes adversaries are more than simple evil people, they are representations of the corruption of the most basic pillars of society : Fernand (the army), Danglars (the economy), Villefort (the justice system), Mercedes (marriage). Politics, the aftermath of several decades of revolutionary wars and poverty are some of the other hot button issues of the 1840's thrown into the mix, and are still hot button issues today.On the other side of the balance, Dumas is apparently putting religion - faith in the biblical God of vengeance, submission to the rule of Providence. The reader must be patient, because only in the final chapters will we see(view spoiler)[ Edmont Dantes question his righteous conviction that God is on his side. Initially, Monte Cristo is revealed as another incarnation of Faust, selling his soul to the Devil for a chance at playing the role of the Hand of Fate:Listen, I have always heard speak of Providence, yet I have never seen her or anything that resembles her, which makes me think that she does not exist. I want to be Providence, because the thing that I know which is finest, greatest and most sublime in the world is to reward and to punish.... and only later asking the hard questions about the right and wrong of his path, especially when trying to accuse the children of the sins of their fathers.Having reached the summit of his vengeance by the slow and tortuous route that he had followed, he had looked over the far side of the mountain and into the abyss of doubt.(hide spoiler)]In many instances of the novel, the characters appeal to God in prayer or in admonition over their misfortunes, but for me the defining moments come when the men and women are shown to be sole responsible for their own deeds, like Caderousse being offered more than once a chance at redemption, and failing each time to choose the right path. Dumas is expressing I think the tumult of the revolutionary times he was living in : The French Revolution and later Bonaparte have challenged and often destroyed all the old rules of the centralised, divine right government, replacing them in theory with the rule of reason and in practice with a predatory and selfish anarchy. Like the count of Monte Cristo, Dumas is searching for new institutions and new ideas to lead the way of humanity into the future. Part of his argument is to return to the Law of Moses, but he cannot ignore the humanist principles that put Man in charge of his own destiny. Here are a couple of quotes to illustrate this debate:I leave each of them on his own pedestal: Robespierre in the Place Louis XV, on his scaffold, and Napoleon in the Place Vendome, on his column. The difference is that equality with the first was a levelling down and with the second a raising up: one of them lowered kings to the level of the guillotine, the other lifted the people to the level of the throne.(Villefort)-- -- --Should a jurist not be, not the best applier of the law or the cleverest interpreter of legal quibbles, but a steel probe for the testing of hearts and a touchstone against which to assay the gold that every soul contains in greater or lesser amounts?(Monte Cristo)-- -- --Take care, Madame. That is not how God should be worshipped. He wants us to understand and debate His Power: that is why He gave us free will.For all the soul searching and the social commentary, Dumas never forgets that he is a popular writer who needs to keep his audience captivated and begging for one more installment (the novel was first published in serial form in a newspaper). He is paying his dues to the Romantic school, even as he opens the path to modernism. Young Albert describes the count to his mother in these terms :I am inclined to consider him as some kind of Byronic figure, branded by Fate's dread seal: some Manfred, some Lara, some Werner .... Other signs of Romanticism is the fascination with Oriental cultures, no doubt a result of the wildly popular translations of the Arabian Nights :Ah, the Orientals, you understand, are the only people who know how to live!.. and an interest in the occult, in perception altering drugs and in pseudosciences :... a face which to a trained physiognomist betrayed an almost repulsive character.The novel offers new avenues of investigation and critical commentary in almost every chapter, and I would love to spent more days trying to put all my ideas in order, but I am also beckoned by the other books I have started reading, so I will try to go on fast track from here on:- Like Dickens, Dumas has issues with his portrayal of women. They are either evil to the bone or angelic figures so bland and spineless it makes you want to gag on the sweetness. Valentine is a perfect illustration of the ideal woman of 1840: innocent, ethereal, prone to fainting fits, submissive and only interesting in keeping house for her man. She is the spitting image of Esther from "Bleak House" . Mercedes at first glance appears as a wilder, more robust character, but will be later relegated to the simplistic role of grieving mother and repentant sinner. I would not put too much blame on the author though, since these were the atitudes prevalent at the times.- an early sign of the changing times and changing morality :When you think, Caderousse said, letting his hand fall on to the paper, that what you have here can kill a man more surely than if you were to hide in the woods to murder him! I have always been more afraid of a pen, a bottle of ink and a sheet of paper than of a sword and a pistol.- a glimpse at the secret of Monte Cristo's power and success :There are twenty-four hours in a day, sixty minutes in an hour and sixty seconds in a minute. A lot can be done in eighty-six thousand four hundred seconds.- on regrets and past mistakes :So it is true that every one of our actions leaves some trace on our past, either dark or bright. So it is true that every step we take is more like a reptile's progress across the sand, leaving a track behind it. And often, alas, the track is the mark of our tears!(Villefort)- on dignity and integrity :I know that the world is a drawing-room from which one must retire politely and honourably, that is to say, with a bow, after paying one's gaming debts.(Monte Cristo)- an early example of product placement and marketing :The courtyard of the Bell and Bottle, with the three tiers of galleries which make it seem like a theatre, with the jasmine and clematis which lightly entwine its pillars like a natural decoration, is one of the most lovely inn yards anywhere in the world.- an uplifting conclusion :Embrace Life, even in the deepest pit of despair : Wait , and Hope!my conclusion: this is a milestone in the road that leads to the modern novel, and Dumas is here the equal of his contemporaries: in social engagement he announces the best period of Dickens and Hugo , while in spiritual fervor and volcanic emotions he announces the rise of Dostoyevsky. "The Count of Monte Cristo" is a much stronger novel than "The Three Musketeers".