What an amazingly delightful book! I regret not reading it earlier** Before I begin, let me clarify that as I am not a Christian, I had no idea that this book was written by keeping the image of Jesus (as Aslan) in mind. I just came across this revelation on Goodreads, and it just added another layer to the story! The review below is written only by treating it as a fun-filled and action packed novel!I had seen the movie based on the book a couple of years ago, and had really loved it! On reading the book, I realized it's just an extention of the movie(Should have been the other way round, but then, the one which comes first usually forms the greater impression). I'm glad the scripwriters did not destroy the essence of the story, which is (though simple), a charming tale!Anyway, coming back to the story, it is about four adventurous children, who accidentally discover the magical world of Narnia behind a wardrobe in an old strange house. But all in not well in this magical land! It's under the reign of the evil queen -- the WHite Witch! Together with the help of a Magnificant Lion -- Aslan, the children go on to kill the witch and themselves become the Four Kings(and Queens!) of Narnia.Though lacking much plot twists, I loved it simply because it was so easy-flowing! I altually wished I had a naughty kid near me whom I could catch hold of and read the book aloud to! I would love to see his wide-eyed amazement when Lucy would open the wardrobe for the first time, see his dissapointment when Edmund would betray them,(view spoiler)[hear his sigh when Aslan would sacrifice his life,(hide spoiler)]and catch that gleeful smile when they would win the Battle!Maybe someday, sometime!P.S: I really liked the dedication.It read:" My dear Lucy,I wrote this story for you, but when I began it I had not realized that girls grow quicker than books. As a result you are already too old for fairy tales, and by the time it is printed and bound you will be older still. But some day you will be old enough to start reading fairy tales again. You can then take it down from some upper shelf, dust it, and tell me what you think of it. I shall probably be too deaf to hear, and too old to understand, a word you say, but I shall still be,your affectionate Godfather,C.S.Lewis."Dear God, I hope I'm NEVER too old for fairy tales!