I was surprised by this book in many good ways. I was expecting something that glorified the Child and its imagination, and perhaps cursed the unstoppable destruction of our Childinity. I was surprised to see this was not truly so. Barrie loves the Child, but he does not hide its foolishness, its selfishness, its ignorance. The Child in this is almost pre-moral. They have some understanding of villainy, but do not grasp the virtue of a hero. Barrie deems a key attribute to being a child as being heartless. All of this raises many points for potential argument and discussion and this is why this book so impressed me. Because I am still thinking about it.It is interesting to think that Barrie was mostly a playwright because I highly enjoyed the playful narrative voice he employed and would mark it as one of my key enjoyments for the book. I love a remarkable narrative voice, though I can't say it is entirely unique. However I may be judging it by its followers as opposed to its peers or master. Regardless, I was entertained and thus I applaud.It should be noted that the sensibilities of this book are not those of today's children entertainment. Most notably, Barrie does not sidestep the fact that the lost boys actively seek to kill pirates. This goes back again to one of my earlier comments, but it may seriously affect the reader. This could bring up many discussions of its own: the place of killing in the imagination of a child, how a child views the struggle between good and evil when they perhaps can't properly discern the two, the distinction between our modern censorship and older standards and they why of all of that, and plenty of other things. However if a parent is looking for a book to read to their child, I just figured this should be brought up.As an aside: for those who know the premise behind the comic series Fables, the writer originally intended for Peter Pan to be the Adversary only to find out that they didn't have rights to the character if they published in the UK. After reading this book I can totally see the interpretation he was going with. It makes for a fun idea. He would have obviously had to constructed the means of the Adversary differently, but Pan as a villain is not unbelievable after this book.