I'm Rollie... and now leaping over my bounded forte?Romance is the least among the genres that I craved to try. Instead, I stumbled upon reading this love story book. A risk indeed to read a different genre especially when it exempts among the genres you always thinks about. Thus, it doesn't just take twenty gulps to risk for it but takes time and sweat to decide the dilemma whether to give it a shot or not. Lately, I decided to widen my braced genres and I thought this book is worth the risk to try. So as a love story as this title represents, I'm afraid that the further words I will emancipate may loosen up the tightness of the statement I previously, in my reviews, professed.The life of Landon Carter during 1958 has been brought back by his memories.Landon is sixteen-year-old senior high student of Beaufort High School, North Carolina. Being a son of congressman, who he rarely see in their house in a year, is normal. Being with his friends Eric and Margaret are even normal for him, for he used to be with them since grade school. But being the Student Body President is another thing, while signing up for Drama Class is definitely not his thing.Jamie Sullivan is surely the last girl in the world Landon wanted to marry but absolutely not the last girl to ask as a date for the school's homecoming. As Landon's world becomes closer to Jamie's, he'll find a plan he never thought fated for him.I was sure then before I tried that I wouldn't like this book, though I was in the mood to read this kind of book. The moment I fixed my eyes onto the surface of the first page of the book's prologue, my feet as if set foot onto the world of what I was reading. I became the main character himself. Marvelous really it is to say how amazing the approach of the main character's perspective to me as a reader. Truly effective. A perfect thing to add up is that the perspective used in the story is from guy's character, considering that it gives perfect justice to how a guy thinks, utters, and acts.The story composes of just simple elements: The typical story of ugly duckling that turns into swan; typical story of a jerk guy who fell in love to the swan; and a typical story of a man who'll do anything for love. The magic of how it turned out to be good is the summation of all those factors. Moreover, Sparks really used the overused concepts perfectly during the shifting of events, which of course a positive move for the book to become better.I'm told that the movie is way better than the book. Granted, for I am one of those unfortunates who haven't watched the movie yet. Yes, I did not itch to watch the movie the moment it had been shown in cinemas nor did I eagerly wait for it in movie cable channels. But I'm very much glad, for I think that choosing to read first the book over watching the movie is one way or another, a smart decision.I honestly admire Sparks for writing down the solid description of Jamie Sullivan, yet unknowingly behind her image is a great mystery. That despite of the best answer a normal person could offer to the reason of her action, there is still hidden truth behind it that alters the nearest possibility.The greatest thing I liked about this book is the profound messages of the story beyond what are written, though some are already given. I liked how faith works at Jamie, that even though everything has been taken from her, she dignifies how her faith still remains. I was also touched at how simply a very kind person could turn the people oppositely to what they were. There is even presence of the true effects of love, which it leads the in love human to think eithersaneorinsane. And the story, in a way, emphasizes how humans should give attention, importance and deeper understanding on the things that surround them not until it's too late. And the best of all is how faith can bring out the miracle to the surface out of the deepest pit.I admit that there were many times the book led me on the verge of tears. For I reckon that this book, no matter how cold-hearted I am, is no wonder a heart-moving one.