I loveA Walk to Remember. Simply love it.And I don't often say this, butthe movie was better. I loved this book, and it had many wonderful elements that the movie lacked, but somehow it didn't come get me the way the movie never fails to do.I never cryat movies, as innever(ask Becca - she'll gladly give you a ready confirmation!), butA Walk to Rememberusually makes me tear up a few times.I've seen it countless times and love it so much that I thought it was finally time to give the book a shot. Typically I always read the book before watching the movie, but that was one I saw first, and didn't even think of reading the book until I stumbled across a used copy in a thrift store. I tend to stay away from contemporary romance and I generally hate YA novels, but I was very happy when I started reading to discover that it was set in the late 1950's. I loved the small-town atmosphere, and I was quickly swept away into the story, even though I knew most of it and who it would end.Comparing book and movie is always fun, and it was very interesting to see how they'd changed certain things to better suit it to the screen, but I must say that I absolutely loved all the orphanage-related parts in the book. It was my favourite aspect of the story compared to the movie because it was so touching, and so beautiful, and really added a new dimension to the high school feel of the book.Jamie Sullivan is one of the most inspiring characters ever, because she is so simple and uncomplicated and so easy to follow. She's sweet and kind, and sure, she appears "saintly", but she's really just a girl who figured out early on what living for God truly means, and how important it is to cling to one's faith no matter what others are thinking or doing around you. I love her loyalty, her kindness, her integrity, her generosity and the way she makes it sound so very easy to be good. She's so loveable, and so inspiring!The charm of this lovely novel all lies in its simplicity and purity; the quiet setting, the easy plot, the everyday characters and the beautiful and breathtaking, yet uncomplicated love story that'll make you believe in the most wonderful of fairy-tales, without necessitating the encumbrances of ladies stuck in high towers, charming princes on white horses, madcap passions and flowery love declarations. No craziness and "OMG I'M SO IN LOOOOOOVE WHAT DO I DO?!?" type of bullshit for you here! Just one of the most beautiful, simple, pure and wholesome love stories ever written, which truly deserves to go down in history alongsideRomeo and Juliet,Pride and Prejudice,Wuthering Heightsand the likes.I never thought I'd love a YA book this much, but seriously, it's just amazing.And Ifinallyunderstand the title, because of how the ending was written. Makes a lot more sense now! ;)