What can I say? I can't even begin to explain how wonderful this book was. Once again, Nicholas Sparks outdone himself. When I first started reading this, I didn't expect much, seeing as how it was a tragedy and I don't really care for tragedies, after the disaster with Romeo and Juliet LOL. However, there was something more to this book than other sad books I've read in my life. For one, this book touched my heart-REALLY touched my heart- and made me ask myself all these questions about love and miracles. This is like, the only book in my life that gave me that heartwarming I-want-to-be-a-better-person feeling. I love how at the beginnning Landon was just an ordinary high school student who took the smallest details of life for granted, but after meeting Jamie, he saw life and love in a new perspective. THIS is the kind of book that could be the new Twilight. I feel like people need more of these heartwarming, inspiring stories and I'm very grateful to Mr. Sparks for teaching me a lesson that I'm sure others need to learn.First off, I would like to praise the book cover. Fits the theme and book title perfectly. It reminds me of autumm, memories,walking, and lives changing. To me, the book cover shows how 57-years-old Landon flashbacks to his senior year when he was a 17-year-old. Even just looking at the cover makes my insides turn all gooey and reminds me of all Jamie and Landon had to gone through. :'(Next, I'd like to say I love the whole romance thing. How a twist of fate could change a boy's life and make him see what life has to offer him. When Landon asked Jamie to go to the school dance, little did he know it would only be the beginning of a long-time memory that would last with him forever. It's so neat how Jamie and Landon would later fall in love with each other, even though they never expected the unexpected to happen. The tiny moments they had with each other (rehersing the play, helping out at orphanages, talking on her front porch, etc.) were beautiful, and makes me fall in love with the book even more. The whole process of falling for each other ,even though they didn't expect to, was heartlifting and makes the book all the better. That is what I expect in YA novels. I love how time after time they realize they're in love, instead of those stupid I-love-you-so-much-even-after-knowing-you-for-a-week romance.I also enjoy getting to know the two main leads. Jamie is probably the most inspiring, most unselfish main character that I've ever known. She makes me want to be a better person, and she makes Landon feel that way, too. Two weeks ago, I didn't give a rat's ass about poor people or orphans. Now, however, after reading this book, I start thinking of miracles and small differences to make the world a better place. And the most inspiring, most saddest thing about Jamie was how she knew she was dying for, like, a year but during that year she still wanted to help others in need. Besides inspiring and unselfish, Jamie is also one of the bravest characters I know. She still stay optimistic, even when nature took its course. If I were in her place, I don't think I could be as brave as her. =')I also love Landon! Like I said earlier, I think it's amazing how he never notice life's smallest details until he met Jamie. Before, he didn't give much thinking into making a difference, but then after getting to know Jamie, he fell in love and wanted to make his girl proud of him by making small but genuine gestures. I believe that that is what made him a strong, amazing man at the end of the book. For example, at the end of the book, when Landon said he finally believed in miracles, I think he means that Jamie was his miracle, and that he was Jamie's miracle. I believe that is what shaped him up. He's one of the best growing characters that I'd read about. And the scene when he married to Jamie was like the most beautiful, lovely, heartbreaking, powerful thing I've ever read in my life!!!!!!!!!! :)))Now that my point is carried across, it's time to wrap things up. This was a very good book, and was the first and only book that made me cry in a long time. I could read this a thousand times, and I would still choke up a bit. It was a beautiful, heartwarming, powerful tearjerker. I had just watch the movie for the first time just today, which caused me to write this review. In my opinion, the movie was better than the novel, because the movie went deeper than what the book did. Plus, it made me cry even more than the book. Now everytime I see the book's cover, or listen to Mandy Moore's songs "Cry" and "Only Hope", or even think about the lovers behind the most amazing love story ever, I would break down in tears. Yes, AWTR was THAT amazing. It's saying something when a book/movie makes me extremely depressed for three days. :,(