4.5 starsWhen I first read Divergent, I was awed. I loved it and I really enjoyed it. However there was this small part of me that just cannot acknowledge that this series could be, like most reviews had said, leveled with The Hunger Games. I don't know, there was something I need to see or feel for me to be completely convinced that it is worth comparing to THG or say that it could be as great as THG.And well, great job Veronica Roth, because Insurgent just had me convinced that this series is indeed f*cking AH-MA-ZING! I was floored! I can certainly say now that this series could be leveled with not just THG but other really great dystopian novels as well.I was so happy this sequel didn't become a filler book, or that it didn't suffer on the "second-book syndrome" in which most second novels in a trilogy tend to be. I was surprised to realized that throughout the book there were so many things that actually happened, so many discoveries and things learned.I thoroughly enjoyed the parts where we get a look on each faction. It was fascinating and interesting to see how they work and learn their beliefs and principles and ways of living. I saw the good and the bad in each of them, their issues and flaws and realized how much their world were twisted seeing how it limited their people to have their own individuality.With her grief over the loss of her parents and her guilt over Will's death, Tris went through an intense emotional roller coaster ride. Her regrets and remorse from what had happened drove her to make thoughtless and careless decisions and actions. Which made me ache for her but also drove me pretty crazy and frustrated me a bit. It was understandable and believable though especially after all that had happened and obstacles they were still facing. With all those emotional suffering she'd been through she was still an amazing and admirable character, a really brave and strong-willed heroine. In the end she was able to find her way and realized the right things she has to do.Tobias/Four. I saw a lot of different sides of him in this book. His usual 'cold and aloof' facade he wear most of the time was gone. He showed a lot of emotions in this one and he'd been more open regarding his feelings. I saw a frustrated Four, a vulnerable Four, a regretful Four but also a very loving and caring Fourand boy did I fall in love all over again!What I also loved so much in this book was how Tris and Tobias's relationship was handled. It was very real, believable and mature. I love that it showed how it was to have a relationship in a situation were too many obstacles, conflicts, emotional baggages were thrown. It wasn't easy and it wasn't always beautiful. But they were still able to overcome it. The downside of it helped established their relationship into a much stronger and more in depth one. I was touched by them and I just so freaking loved them.I found myself dumbfounded by the ending. It was mind blowing and I was seriously surprised. It wasn't really a brutal cliffhanger but it was a very good cliffhanger! I wasn't expecting that and it made me so excited for the next book! Overall, Insurgent was a very remarkable and impressive sequel! Once you read it, you'll never have a doubt about his series. I highly recommend it. Book 3, hurry up! :))This review is also posted atBook OverdoseTeaser:"He kisses me again, more insistent this time, his hands squeezing my waist. His breaths, his body, my body, we are so close there is no difference."