OMG! That ending! Well, now I'm going to have to binge the next two books along with some other books I'm reading so I will probably fade away into the mist somewhere!I loved this book a lot more than the first book. I'm seriously going to read that one again at some point because I think something was just off with me. I really think I had watched the movie so many times that it felt like I was kinda watching it again only not watching it and it was weird. Who knows!!!Movin' on . . .This book had a lot more going on and someone I really liked died. Well, a lot few people died in both books I liked but that's the way it goes.I'm going to have a hard time with the next books because I saw someone's spoiler about what happens to someone so that was a bummer. But, I'm going to get through it.So all of these factions are against each other now with all of the stuff that went down in the first book. Well, some are getting together to go against other ones. I can't keep up with them all. I just know that I like Abnegation and I do like the good Dauntless people. Oh, and the Amity people.It turns out Tobias is a very important man because of his parents. I still think he's crush worthy =) Not because of his parents, because it just popped in my head. Don't ask.Tris is going around like some kind of robot. It makes me wonder, I really wonder what is going on with her. I know the Divergent's are different but still, I wonder if something else is going on too.Caleb, her brother is a twat. I mean one minute he's this and one minute he's that but he's still with them. He's just easy to brain wash.Watch, I'm going to get to the end of the books and the author is going to say it was all a dream or something weird. NO ONE TELL ME!And I have to mention that I am in love with these hardback covers. I still had the plastic on the boxed set until I opened them last week and started them so I had no idea. I don't usually like those shiny weird covers, but these are awesome. I don't know if it's a different kind of shiny cover and they are so pretty and big and YES, I WILL JUST ADMIT I HAVE HUGGED AND PETTED THEM SEVERAL TIMES! There, you happy? I love my books, I can't help myself.On to the next and I'm scared =(