Like a wild animal, the truth is too powerful to remain caged.This is the opening line of Insurgent. The whole book is built around this opening line. Around truth and lies. And I didn't realise that until the very end.Divergent is one of the best dystopian books I have ever read. Therefore, I was very excited for Insurgent! For the most part of it, right until the last 100-pages, it was as good as Divergent was. But then everything changed! Insurgent was not as good as Divergent any more. It was ten times better!Insurgent is phenomenal. Divergent was amazing, but this book is spectacular! One of the things that I wanted to see in Insurgent was more world building. I was confused on how this society works, how everything started, what's outside Chicago, what's happening in the rest of the world... Insurgent addresses all those questions and the answers are unbelievable. This is what made this book so much better than Divergent for me. The world building.But all the elements that made me love Divergent so much can be found in here as well. The numberless twists and turns, the action, the agony. Reading Insurgent feels like you're drowning. The action, the emotions &amp; the adrenaline hit you like waves that take your breath away. It is amazing how Roth can fill the reader with adrenaline and fear. The deaths in this book felt like water penetrating into my throat making me choke. Roth does not hesitate to kill main characters. In the first book this was painful, but in this one it is unbearable. The characters are so multidimensional, that you love them without even realizing it. When they die, it hurts.And then there is the sweet love story between Tris and Four. The love story in this trilogy is one the most believable love stories in YA literature. It unfolds naturally, beautifully slow. It is sweet and it makes you smile. I love it. In this book there is some angst in their relationship. While in most books I don't like that, in this one it adds to the story. In a ruined world that is dominated by war, angst is expected.Unlike Divergent this book does not focus only on the action, but it also goes deeper into character's emotions and feelings. The psycho-graphic part of the book is very well done. You can see the loss inside the character's heart, you can feel their pain. Their actions are compatible with what they have been through. Tris is not a heroine in the classic way. She is not fearless. She is a very human character that makes mistakes. How can a book be both action-driven and character-driven? I don't know. But Veronica Roth does it.The first part of the book was moving through a direction that I wasn't sure if I liked or not. It was very focused on the war between the factions and I was worried that we were not going to see the world building and the bigger picture of this dystopian society that I was craving for. I was wrong. In the second part of the book things happen that I wasn't expecting at all. Especially in the end, there was a twist after every second line. And then there was that huge twist in the end that I loved! This twist is what made me to love this book so much. I just cannot stop thinking about it. I was expecting some of these things to happen (one death in particular), but not that early! I was expecting them in the third book or something. But Veronica Roth surprised me again proving that it is just not possible to predict what will happen in her books.Another aspect of this trilogy that I love is how well it pictures war, violence, brutality, propaganda and political games. The messages in this trilogy against all these things are breathtaking. It is not just an action story. It is not just a love story. It has a little bit of everything. Agony, humor, twists, action, love, friendships, loss, grief, family values. It is a book that talks about braveness, the effects of war and the most important, how crucial choices are.I can't say enough for this book and for this trilogy. There are no words. One of the best dystopian trilogies and books out there right now! I cannot express how much I enjoy living in this world with this characters that I love. Four is a HUGE crush and Tris is one of the best heroines I have ever read. It is a story that will stay with me for a very long time.