On the face of things, The Thornbirds wears the guise of a romance novel, the story of forbidden love, but that's only the novel's outward guise. I think anti-romance would be a better way to define this novel. In fact- in this way- The Thornbirds reminds me of the pulitzer-prize winning Lonesome Dove which- I would argue- is actually an anti-Western. Both The Thornbirds and Lonesome Dove find the outer reaches of their chosen genres (romance or western) and then push as far as they can, fighting and buckling against the constraints that the genres impose, standing theme and plot on their head and inventing a new world of literature.Both novels result in loaded, epic tomes, like some sort of Biblical whale that swallows everything in its path. So: The Thornbirds is epic (Australian) history, family psychology, feminism, theology, romance and anti-romance and melodramatic tragedy nearing Shakespearian ordinance. Oh, and solid, almost brilliant, use of the omniscient narrator in action.Let's break it down:History: The Thornbirds gives us a panoramic view of the development of Australia from just before World War I through the 1960's including wars, hard times, the development of technology, changing fashions and styles, and changing culture itself. These changes manifest or appear mostly in the background of the novel which is really focused on three generations of women of the Cleary family and the men who (would) love them, but make no mistake, this is also a novel about the land itself and how it is transformed both by nature and by people. In fact, one of the biggest characters in The Thorn Birds is Drogheda, the massive estate (and sheep farm) that plays a major role in the lives of four generations of people. If other parts of the world are transformed by mankind, Drogheda- which sits on the edge of the blazing Australian outback- is that which resists the march of progress. Any progress that comes must trickle in so as not to disturb the blazing heat, endless dust, dry lightning storms, and the needs of 125,00 merino sheep.Colleen McCullough is the author of The Thorn Birds, and as a writer, she brings a lot of good stuff to the table. One is her ability to report on natural and historic detail. Whether its describing an army of rabbits, sheep, "kangas", and emus racing to escape an outback brushfire (possibly one of the most frightening and menacing description of a landscape fire in literature) or describing General Montgomery's army advancing towards a wall of artillery fire in the North African desert (I told you this novel covers a lot of ground), McCullough has a gift for describing the big and small in brilliant, vibrant strokes.Beyond her ability to rend scenery in great detail, McCullough is also very good at presenting characters' inner psyches. I feel like McCullough is a smart observer and reporter of the human condition. Some great examples includes Fionna Cleary's tendency of favoring her boys over her sole daughter, Meg and- even further- favoring her first born son, Frank, more than the others. She does a fabulous job of blending this into the wool of story, showing how a mother's rationed love will effect each set of children differently, give them a different perspective on the world, and how that- in turn- changes other things and so on, a great domino effect. Other examples of this psychological examination include Father Ralph's intractable pride (possibly his greatest sin), or Justine's total fear of serious commitment. These are built elegantly into the plot, but one refreshing things is that McCullough is not afraid to also tell her readers exactly what the case is. She's not afraid to just come out and write a piece of exposition stating that Fionna Cleary has essentially no use or interest in having a daughter, or that Father Ralph will sell people out in his hunger for a career in the church. I think that it takes a certain boldness for writers to just come out and state something in the 3rd person omniscient, but McCullough is capable at pulling it off.Feminism: While not a feminist tract by any means (and that's good because novels that are blatantly political tend to be problematic), Thornbirds is not a story that shirks seeing its female characters developing across the generations. Spanning from proud Fionna who will never question her husband's (Paddy's) will, to Meggie who starts off as everyone's doormat but who eventually builds her own spine, to prickly Justine who is not giving up anything for anyone. McCoullough is smart enough to give each of the Cleary woman their own collection of merits and flaws. None of them are perfect, but it is heartening to see them reflect the slow progress for women since the end of the industrial era, and by the time we get to difficult/ contrary Justine (Meg's daughter) we can forgive her stubbornness because its been earned by the suffering of her mother and mother's mother.I also mentioned that this book is an anti-romance. What does that mean? Well, romance novels have a certain set of conventions that go with them, and we mostly expect them to end happily or with a tragedy that is counterweighed by immense spiritual uplift. True, it does have some hot romantic scenes between the very handsome Ralph and a beautiful Meggie and those scenes are tinged with burning desire and desperation and there is a deep sense of spiritual sacrifice (for Ralph, not so much for Meggie); however, without (hopefully) giving too much away, The Thorn Birds give us neither the happy ending nor the transcendent tragedy. Instead the end is a jigsaw puzzle of bittersweet riddles. It seems, in some ways, everyone gets what they want, but not what they need, and that's not good. So if you always get what you want and not what you need, then your victories ring hollow, or there is a lack of soul in there or something lack that. Ergo, the book bucks the conventions of romance and travels it's own enigmatic route.