Unless someone like you cares a whole awful lot,nothing is going to get better. It's not.Author/Illustrator:Dr SeussFirst published: 1971The ankle-biter had seen the animated movieThe Loraxwith her cousins and was keen to read the book. I was wary because a) I understood the movie was substantially different to the book, and b) her reading ability (vocab and comprehension) IMO surpassed Dr Seuss. BUT she'd been "studying" Dr Seuss at school in relation topoetryso I picked up the book and movie for some family time.And found an unexpectedly enjoyable book with a lesson on conservation, deforestation and anti-consumerism. Typical of Dr Seuss the language has a beautiful rhythm, rhyme and humour which just screams "Read Aloud!".I'm putting my prejudices aside and pulling out the Dr Seuss to mix with the Dahl's. They are fun, and they encourage the listener to participate and enjoy *language*.Extras- Classroom discussion questions fromSeussville .com.-There are various Lorax Apps available includingthe official one,a storybook app.Phonics vs Whole LanguageThe school my daughters attend has always used a combination of phonics and whole language to teach reading. They were given "sight words" to learn - pattern match the word without thinking about the letters and sounds they make, as well as placing the word within the reading context to "guess" what it would be. And they were shown how to break a word into bite-size chunks to sound out the word.Dr Seuss (and in this context, "The Lorax") won't allow a reader to depend solely on one method. His original words ("Barbaloots", "Truffula") require a phonetic interpretation, but also the contextual understanding to make sense of them. And then there are his rhymes which defy a purely phonetic reading (eg trees and please, "Barbaloot suit"). It makes his books a greater challenge, and also a more interesting read, than many adults (including me) realise.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teaching...Age(taking into account comprehension, concentration, language):Read aloud - 5+Read yourself - 7+ (typical Suess playing with words makes a once simple vocabulary challenging)(ISBN 9780007173112)