4.5 starsIf you know me well enough, you will know that Dr. Seuss is not my favorite children's author. I always had that feeling that there was a glass wall that stood between Dr. Seuss' tales and me as a child reader. I also disagree with how Read Across America only concentrates on Dr. Seuss when there are plenty of other children's book authors and children's books that deserve recognition for their quality and the activities that they can present. I will, however, say that I really enjoyed The Lorax and would consider it to be my favorite within his bibliography. I feel that with this tale, he does not just convey a tale intended for a younger audience, but a message that everyone of any age can come out feeling enlightened and informed.The story begins in the present day, all run down on the "Street of the Lifted Lorax" that is covered in "Grickle-grass" where a boy (who is meant to represent the reader) pays a visit to the Once-ler, looking for answers as to why the Lorax was lifted away? Regardless of the opportunity, the Once-ler is always looking to make money and for a fee, is willing to tell the boy a story about the past, where creatures lived harmoniously and only took what they needed from the Truffula trees (such as its fruits). Once the Once-ler comes across these trees, he begins to see the profit he can make off of them and invents a multipurpose product called a "Thneed," that can be used as clothing or furniture. The Once-ler is in turn questioned by the Lorax, who is a voice for the trees and a representative of nature, warning the Once-ler of the consequences that are bound to come with the rapid removal of the Truffula trees. After being constantly ignored, the area is faced with an ever so familiar crisis that is only bound to get worse, but at the same time there is a sense of hope that comes out of how one can respond to everything taking place within the text.This book left a really strong message about the importance that our environment has not just on humanity, but for the rest of society and reminds us that we share it not just with other humans, but with other animals and living things. I get a kick out of how Dr. Seuss ridicules the great desire that humanity has for money, the great lengths they will go for profit and with no concern as to what they destroy in the process, and the use of ridiculous words to describe the means of destruction (such as "smogulous smoke," "Gluppity-Glupp," and "Schloppity-Schlopp."). That will definitely stick in my head for quite some time.I took an environmental science class back in high school and it was quite memorable to the point that it has given me the awareness to do my very best in improving my habits regarding measures I can take to make the world a better place (especially when it comes to recycling, I became an advocate and a stickler for recycling). With books like this, one develops the tools they need to explore more environmentally friendly habits and perhaps even ways that they can make a profit while also not putting a great strain on the environment. There is a great "seesaw effect" between nature and the living creature's response to it, which includes the great weight that humanity places on it. By the end of the book, we have another tool that we can use to engage in habits that are healthier for the environment and, in turn, healthier for its inhabitants, ourselves included.You can find the Literary Gladiators discussion about this book (containing spoilers) here:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qkOU7...