The Lorax is not a story about the environment, it's a story about economics.I had never read The Lorax before yesterday, and I hadn't watched the movie. In class, we're studying economics when another teacher said, "hey could I bring in The Lorax tomorrow?"Obviously, I'm familiar with Dr. Seuss - and the book,but I'd never read it.Still, I trust this other teacher who has yet to let me down. "Sure, bring it in."The rest of this review is going to be a 7th grade social studies lesson, meant to help me remember to come back to this book next year. If there are other social studies teachers out there who want to know how I teach economics and specifically externalities (what they had been calling economic spillover), here you go: (I'll talk more about why The Lorax is about the economy rather than environment at the end...):I tell the students that the economy deals with theproduction,distribution, andconsumptionof goods. We simplify it by saying it's making, sending/selling, and buying/using stuff.This is why we think about money and jobs when we discuss the economy... making stuff is the job, which allows people to get money.I then tell the kids a story. I want to get a drink of water. So, I start to pour myself a glass. While I'm pouring, some spills over onto the ground. A flower grows. Some also lands on a baby making it cry.Why did I pour my water? Did I want to grow a flower? Did I want a baby to cry? No. I poured my water because I was thirsty. Those other things that happened were unintended consequences - both positive and negative - of pouring the glass of water.When people build a factory, why do they do it? To make money. To make a profit. This is why the Once-ler built his Thneed factory. He wanted to make a profit.He talks about the Brown Bar-ba-loots leaving,"I the Once-ler, felt sad as I watched them all go. BUT... business is business! And business must grow regardless of crummies in tummies, you know."Did the Once-ler want the Brown Bar-ba-loots to leave? Did he want the air to darken? Was his intent for the Swomee-Swans to fly away, quieted? No.Economic Spillover (externality) = the positive and negative unintended consequences of economic development.The Once-ler wanted his Thneeds to make money, and make money they did.The problem is in a completely free and unregulated market economy, profit is god, at the expense of everything else - in this case, the book chooses to focus on the environment... but again, it's really about economics and corporate greed.Of course Seuss isn't saying buying things (or market economy) is bad. We all have needs. ...But we also have Thneeds: things we think we need. And if our Thneeds are causing more harm than the amount we need them, maybe it's time to re-evaluate what we're buying and why.Great book. I can't believe I haven't read it before.