"I knelt down and gathered them into my arms. I buried my face between their wiggling bodies and cried. The stationmaster, sensing something more than two dogs and a boy, waited in silence."Woodrow Wilson Rawls' timeless coming-of-age Classic is a beautifully heartbreaking story and sentimental favorite.Where the Red Fern Growsexplores the love between a boy and his dogs and the bond between two dogs. The Disney movie was a staple of my childhood, but I'm still unsure of whether or not I'd ever read the book until now.Ten-year-old Billy grew up in the Cherokee country in northeastern Oklahoma in the rugged Ozarks. He is infected with the wonderful yet terrible disease of puppy love- not the kind a boy might feel for a pretty girl but the "real kind" for a furry, four-legged friend. Billy's unshakable desire to obtain two hound dogs for coon hunting dominates his existence. His desire is all-consuming, and he works incessantly for two years to save the exorbitant amount of fifty dollars needed to purchase the pups.I was most moved by the authenticity of the narrative. There is no doubt that many of the aspects of the story are autobiographical including the setting, the knowledge of hunting, and incorporating homeschooling and farming into the plot. I also enjoyed the beautiful description of the natural world that Rawls provided.I heard the "Bam, bam, bam" of a woodpecker high in the top of a box elder snag. The cry of a kingfisher and the scream of a bluejay blended perfectly with the drumlike beat. A barking red squirrel, glued to the side of a hackberry tree, kept time to the music with the beat of his tail.I highly recommend this novel to children of all ages, including grown ones, who have ever loved a dog or been inflicted with the "dog-wanting disease." Billy is a wonderful example of character, especially for young children. Among his admirable qualities are humility, determination, generosity, and deep love for his family.Excerpt:"Men," said Mr. Kyle, "people have been trying to understand dogs ever since the beginning of time. One never knows what they'll do. You can read every day where a dog saved the life of a drowning child, or lay down his life for his master. Some people call this loyalty. I don't. I may be wrong, but I call it love- the deepest kind of love.""It's a shame that people all over the world can't have that kind of love in their hearts," he said. "There would be no wars, slaughter, or murder; no greed or selfishness. It would be the kind of world that God wants us to have- a wonderful world."Almost equally as interesting was the life story of the author. Rawls was born in 1913 in Oklahoma. He had little interest in reading until he was introduced to Jack London'sThe Call of the Wild. He decided then to become a writer and wrote on any scraps of paper he could find. The family left Oklahoma and headed for California in 1935 during the Depression and ended up settling in New Mexico after their car broke down. In 1958 when Rawls became engaged, he burned all of his manuscripts because he was ashamed of his writing and lack of formal education. When his wife Sophie learned of his dream, she encouraged him to rewrite his story. She corrected his grammar and punctuation, andWhere the Red Fern Growswas published in 1961.