*3.5 Stars*The main reason I'm rating this one lower than the previous three?The first 300 pages were BORING.(-1 star) This book could almost have started on page 300 and still have been great. I understand the need for back story, but I was frustrated and annoyed at how much I had to slog through to get to the main story of the book.Setting the stage is one thing, dragging things out to artificially create tension and mood is another.I rounded up to 4 stars because I was genuinely surprised by some of the revelations. I'm told I might be dense though so it's very possible these things might become clear sooner to other readers. I try not to think too hard when I'm reading for entertainment so this might just mean I'm easier to surprise.It's hard to talk about this book without spoiling what happens in the previous one,so stop reading if you haven't readShadow Kissyet!First off,I love the new Dimitri.I was hoping Adrian would get his chance with Rose after Dimitri was turned because I honestly never felt that Dimitri and Rose were a real couple. She had a sad case of hero-worship and he was just kind of lame and blah. And if I have to hear her describe him as a god one more time, so help me ... but now, Dimitri is kind of hot. I like him evil like I liked Angel as Angelus in Buffy. I can't help but compare the two characters, and it's a comparison that I'm not upset about.Dimitri finally has some personality!He doesn't just feel like a broody man that Rose has put up on a pedestal. I like my men broody, but not mopey and broody which is the vibe I got from Dimitri in the beginning. Now he feels REAL, and he has somelifeto him. Which is sort of ironic, huh? Maybe evil characters are just more fun to write? (+0.25 stars)There are some other new characters thrown into the mix in this one; a few I liked and a few I'm glad met their end.Abe is definitely going to be an important player and one that I hope to see in the next novel. I thought the Belikovs were interesting but ... unimportant? It was kind of a weird side quest that Rose went on, and I understand the purpose it served, but still, kind of pointless.Same with Sydney and her whole situation; it really felt like that was all thrown in at the last minute.Also, I was annoyed with all the trips Rose took into Lissa's head; it was a poor plot device and one that had just recently shown up inSuccubus Shadowstoo, so I wasn't all that thrilled to see it repeated again. Plus, it waswaytoo coincidental that every time Rose was listening in, her friends would be talking about her. It was all just too convenient. (-0.25 stars)On top of the trips into Lissa's head, we're also granted with a bunch of flashbacks to conversations and stories about Dimitri and Rose that haven't appeared previously. The same thing happened with Georgina too andit feels like Mead is having trouble lately fleshing out a completely new story; she keeps choosing to backtrack instead.I think she's getting dangerously in need of a new editor. (-0.25 stars)I also wasn't too happy about the ending, though it was definitely one Ididsee coming a mile away. It makes me mad that Rose decides to finally throw Adrian a bone, but with the way things ended you know she's just going to toss him aside for her quest.He's the victim in all of this.Poor guy.Other people have said that this book really doesn't move the main plot along and we're basically right back at the end of Shadow Kiss. But, that's not all together true. Sure, not much has changed in the grand scheme of things, but Rose has new friends, new knowledge, and (hopefully) a new outlook on what's to come.I don't think she could have gotten to where she is at the end of this book if she hadn't gone through the events of this book.But one more thing: a hedge maze? Seriously? (-0.25 stars)My reviews of books two and three:FrostbiteandShadow Kiss.