5 Forgotten Lessons StarsSpoilers!!! So much happens in these books that I use my reviews as reminds so lots of Spoilers!!!RECAP:Book 4, Blood Promise, starts with Rose trekking around Russia looking for Dimitri , to kill him. In Russia Rose meets up with a human named Sydney Sage and a Moroi named Abe. Sydney is an Alchemist who helps Rose find Dimitri's family. Rose starts living with Dimitri's mom, grandma, and 3 sisters. They didn't know Dimitri was turned Strigoi. Rose of course tells them. They hold an memorial in his honor, and treat Rose like his widow. Rose ends up staying longer with the Belikovs than she planned because she loves them and feels closer to Dimitri being in his childhood home. Abe tries to get her to go back home, lying and telling her he was hired to find her and get her home. Really he is her father and he wants her safe. She doesn't find that out until the end of the book. Rose gets in a fight with Dimitri's youngest sister and ends up leaving. She hunts Dimitri down. Dimitri knocks Rose out and holds her prisoner telling her that he wants to turn her Strigoi by choice. Dimitri trying to talk Rose into becoming Strigoi by keeps Rose high on vampire bites and making out with her telling her they could be together forever.Rose ends up staking Dimitri with a chair leg, escaping the compound he was holding her at. Dimitri catches up with her and she ends up staking him with a silver stake. He falls off a bridge into a river. She believes him dead. She gets ahold of Abe, who picks her up and gets her help as she was badly hurt fighting Dimitri and other Strigoi that lived at the compound. The woman that Abe gets to heal Rose is also a spirit user. Her name is Oksana and her bonded husband is Mark. When getting healed, Rose slips into Lissa's head and realizes that Lissa is in trouble from another Spirit user name Avery. Avery is trying to kill Lissa and bond her to her. Rose with the help of Oksana and Adrian are able to save Lissa from where she is in Russia. Also while getting healed she learns there are rumors that a Stigoi can be healed by a spirit user. She is sad that Dimitri is dead and can't be healed if the rumors are even true. Rose with the help of Abe goes back to the Academy. She re-enrolls in school and promises her mom and Lissa she will finish this time. She also tells Adrian that she will start dating him. At the very end of the book Rose gets a letter from Russia. It's from Dimitri telling Rose she forgot the lesson of making sure the Strigoi is dead. In the letter he sends her the stake she staked him with and tells her he is coming for her.My thoughts:This book is so good. My heart hurts for Rose so much. Rose does a lot of remembering of the good ol days in this book, so I got to get a deeper look at Rose and Dimitri's relationship. I loved Dimitri's family I could see why Rose would want to stay with them. A big part of the book was Rose while being held captive by Dimitri and my heart broke with Rose's. I too felt like Dimitri still had good in him and I don't know if I could have staked the man I loved. I felt bad for Lissa and Christian. When Christian broke up with Lissa I almost cried. I know Lissa couldn't help the things she was doing because Avery was controlling her with spirit but I hurt more for Christian. I really like Adrian too but I don't want him with Rose. Sorry I just think it's too soon, especially after finding out Dimitri is still alive and can be saved. I can't wait to get my hands on the next Book!!!