"There is no such thing as a true tale. Truth has many faces and the truth is like to the old road to Avalon; it depends on your own will, and your own thoughts, whither the road will take you."Again, I feel the need to put my thoughts down about some of the books that changed my life and made me into the guy I am.Those who know me just one tiny bit also know thatThe Lord of the Ringsis my favourite book ever. Go a little bit deeper, and you also know that Frank Herbert'sDuneis high up on my list of all-time favourites. The point is that those two books were the first real fantasy books (using the term loosely here) I read in my life. But... in reality I have a holy trinity of fantasy books from my childhood. The three books that made me love fantasy in the first place and go to explore other worlds and the magic between the pages of masterpieces.I've already confessed my undying love forLotRandDune. The third aspect of the trinity isThe Mists of Avalonby Marion Zimmer Bradley.Like I already wrote about in slightly more detail in my review ofDarkover Landfall, Marion Zimmer Bradley is, despite it all, one of my favourite authors. This book is what introduced me to her works.But as I write these words, I realise one sad fact about this wonderful story. I remember nothing of it. Not one bit. Unlike the other two books mentioned in the beginning, I have never read this one again after the first time. And now I'm scared to actually do it. Because I don't want to sully childhood memories with the harshness of reality.The only thing I do remember is that I absolutely loved it. And still do, passionately so. And that's the important part, right?So, depending on whether or not I eventually read this again, and depending on whether or not I have more thoughts to think and more words to write, maybe there will be a full review about the loveliest work of Arthurian fiction at some point."And so, perhaps, the truth winds somewhere between the road to Glastonbury, Isle of the Priests, and the road to Avalon, lost forever in the mists of the Summer Sea."