I won't lie: I read this because it has a) Crowley in it, and b) it's an adult book and I was adulting. (That was exhausting though. Please, lead me back to the children's aisle. That's where I belong.)I totally enjoyed it though because it's HILARIOUS.Yeah maybe the story is a bit waffly in places and there are some useless tangents it runs off on, but it is downrightfunny. Why? Oh, oh keep calm. I'll show you.First of all, it is SO like the Supernatural TV series.What can I say? I'm a huge fan. I'm such a huge fan that I picked up this book because I recognised THE DEMON'S NAMES. Come on. That's probably a little on the weird side. I also wanted to read more Neil Gaiman (I'd only readCoralinebefore now) and start for the first time something by Terry Pratchett. I'm completely sold to both of them.But I really think that the Supernatural TV series borrowed stuff from this.Or else the coincidences are pretty dang astounding. For once that doesn't make me angry though. This was first published in 1990, so I know they're not copying. So that's okay.So we have the stars: Crowley and Aziraphale.I love them so much.They're totally Cas and Crowley from Supernatural. Down to AZIRAPHALE WEARS A FREAKING TRENCH COAT.Aziraphale looked down at his new body which was, unfortunately, very much like his old body, although the overcoat was cleaner. (pg. 364)Plus Aziraphale is unfortunately devoid of a lot of pop references and is very serious. And also fantastically awesome.Many people, meeting Aziraphale for the first time, formed three impressions: that he was English, that he was intelligent, and that he was gayer than a treeful of monkeys on nitrous oxide.Crowley isn't the king of hell though, like in the TV series. He's kind of just...a demon who was told to do a job (plant the antichrist baby in the correct family) and who messed that up and therefore LOST THE ANTICHRIST. I mean, come on! Helostthe antichrist. Can we take a moment to just laugh, okay?! The ridiculousness. Also there's plenty of banter like this:"But it might be written diffferently somewhere else," said Crowley. "Where you can't read it.""In bigger letters," said Aziraphale."Underlined," Crowley added."Twice," suggested Aziraphale.And this:Aziraphale: "I was going to ask you the same thing -- WATCH OUT FOR THE PEDESTRIAN!"Crowley: "It's on the street, it knows the risks it's taking!"img src="http://37.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_m77..." width="400" height="209" alt="description"/&gt;Besides being funny and having epic characters, I also enjoyed the hilarity of the plot and the genius of the twists.It loosely used facts and lore and turned it into an epic and warped English version of having an apocalypse before dinner. It's nottooridiculous though. Although I thought the antichrist would be older. He's 11. And named Adam.Okay! Okay! Sorry about all the comparisons. BUT I'M KIND OF OBSESSED WITH THE TV SERIES.What I didn't like?Well, it got a bit boring when it dived into Anathema and Newt's story line. I honestly couldn't care less about them. The middle-ish of the book isn't so much about Crowley, so I was disappointed. But it had more Adam and he had an interesting story. I loved his hellhound that turned into a little tiny dog because it's master unknowingly requested it. A hellhound...as a tiny dog. BAH AHAHA. The writing was also thick. It's not YA writing, which is what I'm used to. I'm not saying it was bad, but I am a "get to the point already" kind of reader, so it was a struggle to stay motivated at times.It's definitely inspired me to read some Terry Pratchett though and maybe dig out more Neil Gaiman. I love these guys. They have the best senses of humour the world could ask for and this book is genius.