This is the third time I've read this book. Once I read this edition, once I listened to the BBC radio dramatisation and now I alternately listened to the audiobook and read the hardcover.This, by the way, is my edition of the print book, the old Gollancz edition and I love the quirky design very much.What you see beneath the book are the two badge pins I couldn't resist buying a while ago.The reason for the re-read is that Amazon Prime is gonna show the adaptation in 2019 (no exact date is given yet). I have and keep informing about the production in detail here:https://www.goodreads.com/user_status...Good Omensis about the angel Aziraphale and the demon Crowley who are both living on Earth and quite enjoying themselves. One day, Crowley is given the Antichrist as a baby and charged with delivering him to a convent so he can be placed with a human family. However, something goes hilariously wrong with the switch.11 years later Armageddon is just around the corner but neither Crowley nor Aziraphale want the world to end because then there will be no feeding the ducks in the park, no lunch dates in the Ritz, no quaint little bookshops or cool Bentleys.Then there is the Antichrist himself, now 11 years old and not exactly what Heaven or Hell had imagined.Thus commences a hilarious romp in the English countryside with the Four Horsepersons, some bikers, children and a very special hellhound.For anyone wanting a glimpse at what this might look like, here is the trailer for the show:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2ZSXl...Seriously, what Pratchett and Gaiman created here is not just a great collaboration - this reads as if it came from one hand, showcasing how similar the two men were and how well these two minds therefore worked together. Some of the creations here are linked almost directly to the authors' other works so there is a certain feeling of coming home whenever I immerse myself in the story.The simple and yet thrilling scenery painted with the poignant humour and sharp social and political criticism that shines through each page in a delicate and tactful way is something to be cherished, something special that one doesn't find too often. *sighs contently*-------------------Original review:Wonderful cooperation between two of the funniest men on the planet: Neil Gaiman and Terry Pratchett!If you think one of them was funny, you can imagine the kind of bellyache I've got from laughing almost uncontrollably at all the jests and jokes and silliness from both of them!The story is quite simple: as written in various prophecies, Armageddon is just around the corner. But an angel and a demon quite like their lives on Earth so they have other plans (such as feeding the ducks).The characters are all elaborate, quirky and original; the writing is not just funny but also delivers some important messages in a light way and all the chapters weave into one another fluidly (which is not to be taken for granted in just any cooperation).It was a marvellous journey to read the book, which I started when the BBC radio dramatisation was advertised last December. Now I've finished the book AND, simultaneously, listenend to the radio series and have to say that the wonderful cast that was put together fit their roles perfectly! Well done to all! I highly recommend readers of the book to listen to the BBC dramatisation as well!P.S.: This is my hardcover edition. Way back when, I had the extreme luck of coincidentally getting what I consider the version with the best/funniest cover design.