Mothers and daughters. Mothers and daughters and families losing and finding each other across cultural boundaries. There's enough material there for Amy Tan to write a thousand books.Suyuan Woo has died and left an empty place at the mah-jongg table. Her daughter, Jing-Mei "June" Woo is invited to join the game, which her mother named the Joy Luck Club. There must always be four men and four women in the club, and Jing-Mei's father has chosen her to take his wife's place. Through her mother's friends An-Mei, Lindo and Ying-Ying, Jing-Mei comes to learn about her mother's life story and secrets she never told. Jing-Mei's journey of discovery weaves in and out of the story of the other three women and their daughters, An-Mei and Rose, Lindo and Waverly, Ying-Ying and Lena. The three "aunties" who sit at the other corners of the mah-jongg table bemoan the breakdown in communication with their American-raised daughters, who seem to have all misplaced their Chinese identity. Lena and Rose are lost souls in disintegrating marriages. Waverly does seem to want to reclaim some of her Chinese culture, but can't get over old anger and misunderstandings. Only Jing-mei is ultimately able to transcend the generational and cultural gap between the mothers and daughters. She sheds her American name, June, and becomes Jing-Mei at the beginning of the book when she is first invited to take her mother's place in the Joy Luck Club. She is something of an ambassador between the younger American-born generation and her mother's friends. Still, she is unable to understand the message An-Mei, Lindo and Ying-Ying are trying to communicate to her, until she finally asks her father to tell her about her mother. When Jing-Mei's father tells her what her Chinese name means, she finally grasps her mother's history and legacy."The Joy Luck Club" is a beautifully written book, but it's more than that. I was swept up in the language at times, but I never lost sight of the underlying story - four women struggling to leave their reluctant daughters their "life's importance." Although it's a story that focuses heavily on the influence of Chinese culture on mother-daughter relationships, any woman can relate to its lovely and powerful message.