This book was breath-taking-ly action packed!!! Oh guys, I ENJOYED IT SOOOOO MUCH!!Kronos has come back with the help of Luke. Now there is threat of invasion in the Camp Half-Blood by the forces of Kronos. Percy and his friends have to go to the Labyrinth, a maze which is full of dangerous monsters and connects every place in the world, to stop them. And also to find the god of wild, Pan, to save Grover's career.=&gt; Characters of Percy and Annabeth were the best in this book. Although the narration of Percy became less humorous, I still loved this book.Annabeth. This quest was lead by her. I must admit that the prophecy of this quest wasn't that amazing. Anyway, I didn't pay much attention to this fact as I was so busy in enjoying this book. :p=&gt; In the previous book, we got the glimpse of a character named Rachel. In this book, she played a significant role. I am not sure I am satisfied with her role yet. Not that I didn't like her role. But her presence in the book seems a huge coincidence. Anyway, This fact didn't look that bad. It can be ignored.=&gt; The quest was amazing! This time it was full of dangers and actions.=&gt; Nico. I loathed him soo much in the beginning, even though I was very interested in him from the previous book. He was just annoyingly stubborn. But there was explaination on this fact. After that my interest in him had re-developed.=&gt; Tyson. He was amazing! I loved his character.=&gt; In Geryson's ranch, Percy had to clean the stable full of poop. It was wonderful how he did that. ;p=&gt; For the first time, goddess Hera played a role in this series. Looking forward to how she will turn out in the next one.=&gt; I was expecting Hade's role in this book. But he didn't appear.=&gt; The biggest flaw I found in this book is, three is lucky number. Only three person can go on the quest. But here there were four. And all returned safely which is againt the ancient rule according to this book. Unlike the previous book, in which three returned safely.Overall, I loved this.July 26, 2017