REACTION AFTER READING THE BOOKMY FAVORITE FROM THIS SERIES, SO FAR.I'm crossing my fingers that the last book would be even better!Usually, I hate series, and I tend to stop mid-series run because I get bored or lose interest. That isn't the case with this one. I am absolutely, irrevocably, hooked with The Percy Jackson world, and I would, most definitely, read the other spin-off series.RICK RIORDAN, you are amazing! Keep these myth-inspired books coming!LONG STORY SHORTA lost GodLove-square?A possessionDeathA labyrinthA friend or an enemy?THINGS WORTH MENTIONING1. PERCY IS A DEMIGOD, BUT HE'S ALSO A TEENAGERPercy may be the only chance Olympus have of surviving, but let's all remember, he's also just a teenage boy, with teenage emotions. I liked that Rick Riordan did not forget this when he wrote about Percy. I would have hated to see Percy be this teenage boy who could go through anything, but not the ones that he has to go through as a teenager.2. DEATHDeath is inevitable in George RR Martin's Game of Thrones. I think Riordan took some cues and decided it was okay to kill a character, or two, per book.3. PERCYBETHI ship Percy and Annabeth so bad. There weren't a lot of PERCYBETH moments in this book, because I feel their feelings for each other isn't solidified with something yet, but I can feel they're perfect for each other, nonetheless. One thing I would like to commend Riordan is how he didn't push for these two to be together right away. He is taking his time writing about these two character separately, then eventually, he'd bring them together. Am I right? Or am I right? For those who have read Heroes of Olympus, please tell me I'm right.4. THE LABYRINTH WAS A CHARACTER IN ITSELFThe way Rick Riordan depicted the Labyrinth is beyond me. I really liked how it branches to each part of the world, without you noticing it. It could seem like you're walking for an hour in the same line, but before you know it, you're coming out of the Labyrinth from the opposite side of the world from which you came in from. But that's not the only good part, the Labyrinth has sections that you'd not expect to be there. I'd love to get the chance to visit, given that'd be able to get out.5. THE RISKS AND CONSEQUENCESI feel that, among all the other books I've read so far, this has got to be the one with the most risks and the dire consequences. While reading this, you get the feeling that it's prepping you for the events that soon to come on the last book, which I am currently reading, by the way.6. DAEDALUSFor those of you know their Greek Mythology, Daedalus, was a great inventor who made flying shoes for his son, Icarus, and also made the Labyrinth. At first, you'll start to wonder when you'll be meeting this mysterious person, but as the story goes along, you'll realize he was right under your nose all along, and that was a big plus for me. I did not expect him to be who he was. He has, indirectly, a very prominent role to this story. I liked how his character was used to this installment.7. I MISS LUKEAs much as I would like to hate this guy, I actually really missed him. He was there, but not really.8. IT WAS FAST PACED AND FULL OF ADVENTUREIt's one of the things I loved about this series, actually, but this book in particular, had the best quest and action (so far that is).FINAL THOUGHTSOverall, I thought this was a strong installment to the Percy Jackson series. I can't wait to finish the last one. I'm hoping it would "wow" me better than this one. I really want to know what happens to Percy, Annabeth, and everyone in the camp, and also, how it would transition to the Heroes of Olympus series.