CAN I JUST SAY THAT I HAVE WARMED UP TO ABSOLUTELY LOVE THESE BOOKS?!!I started rather dubious with 3-star ratings, but they've quickly climbed to 4. I'm sucked in. I'm a worm on a hook. Just staaahp everything and let me keep reading. (I literally read 3 books in one week.) Although they still haven'tquitehit the pinnacle of "absolute awesome" for me. Maybe the last book?! omg! I'm nearly finished this first series!So I loved the plot of this one a lot more.It felt more varied. It's still the same structure (starts at school, burns school, goes to camp Half Blood, goes on quest, ends at Camp Half Blood, goes back to school) but the action was more varied and not just battling. Which I enjoyed. And MORE ANNABETH! I seriously missed her when she got kidnapped in the last book. Although Percy is hopelessly clueless and it's getting kind of ridiculous. ALTHOUGH. He is a boy. And a teenager. It's still mildly adorable (and nottoofrustrating) that he doesn't see Annabeth likes him. i'm very worried he'll flirt accidentally with Rachel Dare and then Annabeth will never speak to him again. THIS CANNOT HAPPEN. I SHIP PERCABETH, DUH.Also Nico. Can we just talk about how cute he is in a black shirt and leather sort of hellish way?I love Nico although I do kind of think the SOLE purpose of Bianca's death was to drive Nico into being semi-evillish. And I cry a little because there were SO many opportunities for Percy to say "yes, Nico, we can be friends" and he NEVER DID. And in the end(view spoiler)[ Nico just leaves Camp Half Blood really thinking he has no friends. I mean, it wasn't sad, and the very last page is him returning to talk to Percy...but I would've loved it if Percy had just kiiiind of dropped hints that he wanted to be friends. *sigh*(hide spoiler)]As always the way the Greek myths are modernised are THE BEST.I really love it when I recognise a myth! (I knew the minatour story!) And at the same time, I love the twists. Like the part where Annabeth has to crack riddles to get across a part of the maze and she decides the questions are too easy and insult her intelligence. I seriously love Annabeth.I really don't have much to say in this review...(the books are starting to merge in my head) justI liked this book the best!The ending wasperfectionand and and....I cannot wait for the finale.*whispers* But also about Luke:(view spoiler)[ I am so impressed that the twist was that Kronos is now in Luke's body. THAT IS EPIC. And scary. And I like that Annabeth still likes Luke a little. I think it makes Luke into a more relatable villain. And they dropped so many hints that Kronos is really controlling Luke that I've started to wonder how much has even BEEN Luke in these last few books. Yes, yes, stop judging me. I always like the villainous boys.(hide spoiler)]