While I've seen this book on various lists for years, I never got around to reading it &amp; had no clue what it was about. I was in the Army when it was published. I know one or two of my kids read it, but it was one of the rare books that I didn't at least skim. (I think my wife read it, instead.) When I first started listening to it this morning, I didn't really get into it at first. It's well written, but wasn't really my thing. Still, it was short &amp; I've been meaning to get around to it, so I kept on. I'm so glad I did.It didn't really grab me until the last quarter &amp; then it wouldn't let go. The end was incredible &amp; really hit me right where I live. (If you don't know how the book ends, don't read this spoiler.)(view spoiler)[When I was 10 &amp; in fifth grade, my father died. Paterson had a great model since her son had lost his best friend, a girl much like Leslie, when he was about the same age. She was struck by lightening.(hide spoiler)]Her characterization was wonderful &amp; the ending is haunting.My edition had an interview with Paterson &amp; her son, David, who apparently illustrated some editions &amp; had dealt with making this into a movie. It was well worth listening to. Paterson saidThe Yearlingwas one of her inspirations which isn't surprising.Apparently this book is hotly debated &amp; often banned by schools because, like theThe Yearling, it deals with death. Some parents don't think their kids should even read about it; a damn fool idea, IMO. As David, I, &amp; many others found out early, it happens. While there is no preparation for it, knowing that others have survived it does help, even fictional people. David also mentions in the interview that at the end of the first screening of the movie, the kids came out happy with the ending while it was the adults that only thought of the sad part. That's part of being a kid, I think. I sure thought the very end was happy, too.Anyway, I'm sorry it took me so long to get around to reading this &amp; I highly recommend it for all ages.