When I start reading a book named after one of its characters, I simply can't help the anxiety to meet them. In this case, I was impatient to finally get acquainted with Madame Bovary.Instead of that, on the opening chapter, we get to see Charles Bovary, the peaceful and shy little boy going to school for the first time. We accompany him while he grows up, study to become a 'doctor' and marry his first wife. After a series of events, he finds and marries his second wife - this time the one - and the story's protagonist finally takes center stage.Flaubert presents to us on his biggest achievement the story of Emma Bovary - the always sad, sorrowful and never quite fulfilled femaleDon Quixote(read my review)- who, through her reading of love stories in books and Parisian society's glamorous events on newspapers, hoped for a more exciting married life than what it seemed to be destined for her.Madame Bovary - who did not love her husband, or her daughter, or her home - was tragically in love with the possibility of a different scenario, and was willing to trade everything for being able to feel and go through breathtaking emotions. Beginning to grow unsatisfied and longing for a hero who would rescue her from her uneventful life, she ends up getting tangled up in a big web of lies, financial debts and cheating with not only one, but two lovers. The excitement of what seemed to be the real life she dreamed of ends up fading out, and finding herself even more lost and lonely than she felt before, she embarks on her ultimate escapade.Worthy mentioning - and an innovation at the time - is an impressively well crafted scene where Emma and her lover Rodolphe are alone, declaring bit by bit their love to each other for the first time, while, in the meantime, they can (and we can!) overhear the events happening outside on an Agricultural Fair at the village. We get to read, concurrently, the lover's declarations and M. Lieuvain's speech. This technique worked well for building up the readers' (at least this reader's!) enthusiasm and thrill felt when that long awaited moment where we would finally see Emma happy happened.The novel's impact was so huge that Gustave Flaubert was actually taken to trial for having written such an immoral book. Don't worry though: he was deservingly so acquitted of all charges. Its impact came not only because of the story itself, but also from the author's innovations and style:Madame Bovary- unlike most (maybe all?) novels from that time - totally lacks any personal commentaries or interventions from Flaubert; what we read is simply the report of the character's words and actions, leaving to us the task to try to make sense of their most inner feelings and actions.Rating: for Flaubert's literary innovations, his beautiful yet sad story and how it was skillfully constructed, 4 stars.