_Madame Bovary_Ok. I liked this book.So, this is slow paced, full of descriptions and in general, not many things are happening even though the book covers a period of several years. It's "multilayered" on many aspects, giving us pieces out of eveyone's thoughts and showing us the emptiness of the provincial life in the ending decates of the 19th century in France. The humor, the kindness and the elegance which Flaubert uses in his writing in order to present the story and the characters is everything. The descriptions are alive. It's like you can watch them move in front of you. It is mainly the psychographic portrait of Emma, our main protagonist, but also, in a smaller extend, of all the people in her life. This is a masterpiece.From here on there are going to be some minor SPOILERS cz i just wanna talk about a few things in the book.First of all, i think i kind of like Emma. I know, she is emotionally unstable, always treating her life with ingratitude, she is vainglorious, greedy and conceited. She is impulsive and unpredictable. But after all this mess, i cannot dislike her, so i think i might actually like her. I beared everything that she did in this book but i swear there were times i wanted to just tell her "Hold still, my human, for a moment. Stop and look where you are, whom you are with. Stop and say to yourself, I am happy. Feel that. Be grateful for that. Ask for no more." But of course Madame Bovary is so not that kind of person. And at the end of the book, when i started getting tired of her mess, she did something. She denied something with strength and honor and it felt like to me, that not everything was lost, even though everything was lost. She is self-desastrous in this whole book but she walks in her complete destruction with such small steps that you can only undersand how far she has come in the mess of her life only in the last chapters, when Flaubert sums up all her actions, even the minor ones.This book needs your paitence and understanding while reading it. I appreciate this piece of literature Flaubert has offered and i am sure i will reread it at some point. 5/5