"You don't forget the face of the person who was your last hope."No review will doThe Hunger Gamestrilogy justice, no matter how well-written, but I'll do my best.This is the first series that I loved unconditionally. Suzanne Collins is the first author who made me actuallywantto pursue reading. For this and many other reasons named below,The Hunger Gamesis truly remarkable.I'm obviously very late on writing a review for this series, as there have been four fantastic blockbuster movies for these books that have been out for so long. Normally, I would say that the movies are usually incomparable the books they were based off of, but in this case, it's pretty close. I recommend reading the books before you see the movies, but that's just my personal opinion. But, seriously, read and watch all ofThe Hunger Games.Getting back to the life-changing novels, they could not have been better. The setting is great, well-thought through, and everything is flawless. The characters are phenomenal. The storyline and plot are not slow or boring.Characters:Katniss:"Katniss, the girl who was on fire!"Katniss Everdeen is one of the most inspirational characters I've ever read or heard about. As an older teen and in Panem with barely-enough money for her family to live off of, and with her father killed in an accident while at work, she is someone many readers look up to. She loves her sister and mother endlessly. She is very strong, whether it's for herself, Peeta, Gale, Prim, or even the whole country (mainly inMockingjay). Not to mention her unmatched talent of archery, which she looks incredibly bad ass doing. Unlike some heroines, she does not make selfish, annoying, irrational, or stupid decisions, because she is neither of those. The beautiful Jennifer Lawrence portrays Katniss perfectly in the movies.Peeta:"And then he gives me a smile that just seems so genuinely sweet with just the right touch of shyness that unexpected warmth rushes through me."Peeeta Mellark is very caring, cute, sweet, and selfless. He's practically an angel who got the raw end of a deal. In the first book, he is the innocent(view spoiler)[half of the famous star-crossed lovers. With his declarations of love, marriage, and pregnancy,(hide spoiler)]and he could not have been any cuter. Yet, I may have cried non-stop at the cliff-hanger end ofCatching Fireand throughoutMockingjay.(view spoiler)[ He was too good for what the Capitol did to him, and that only made me hate the tyrannical and evil President Snow even more.(hide spoiler)]Again, the amazing Josh Hutcherson portrays Peeta flawlessly.I cannot possibly name all the characters and my opinions of them in this review, but they all have some sort of impact on you and your own opinion of reading this trilogy. I love most of them, for they have changed my life for eternity.Ships:Katniss and GaleI hate Gale with a passion (though I have nothing against Liam Hemsworth, 'cause he's smoking hot), so we are not even going to discuss this. I gagged when I attatched the gif above this, and I cannot possibly look at it any more.OR...Katniss and Peeta"And while I was talking, the idea of actually losing Peeta hit me again and I realized how much I don't want him to die. And it's not about the sponsors. And it's not about what will happen when we get home. And it's not just that I don't want to be alone. It's him. I do not want to lose the boy with the bread."This is THE otp. It's obvious. No explanation needed. They're just shamelessly perfect for each other.Note:If you are looking for a series filled with physical romance, this is not that book, though it does have its moments. This consists more of the deep, emotional love that pairs in this trilogy feel for each other. It will make your heart tighten.Overall:This series is a must. You will love it till the end of your days. It deserves an infinite number of stars. The amount of action, romance, heart-break, and inspiration in this trilogy is unforgettable.Warning!1. Have a box of tissues at the ready, because this is a definite tear-jerker.2. There will be emotional pain being felt throughout the series, so prepare your soul.3. Try to refrain from throwing your copy of this series at the wall nearest you-you may have to buy a new one, and not all books are cheap.4. Attempt to refrain from yelling and cursing Suzanne Collins when in public. Suzanne Collins is a goddess given to us from above-she deserves to be loved. And no screaming in public. It causes a scene. That is something you do in private.5. Save your money to buy any and allHunger Gamesmerchandise. It is not always cheap, but it is always necessary with this trilogy.6. Enjoy!"Happy Hunger Games! And may the odds be ever in your favor."