GladiatorialThe Hunger Games Trilogyis quite understandably one of the greatest successes in young adult fiction over the last decade. The concept seems to have really appealed to our sense of injustice from a tyrannical ruler and gladiatorial games full of horror, suspense and survival. The totalitarian political and social structure that exists creates the perfect dystopian environment to give someone hope of moving from a subjugated existence where people are governed frugally and ruthlessly, to one of abundance and freedom. While watching and participating in the games also keeps the populace distracted from the harsh realities of life.Societies are split into 12 zones each responsible for delivering key societal needs such as coal, food, military etc. From each zone a male and female will be selected to participate in theHunger Gameswhich continue until only one competitor remains alive, to be declared the winner. The idea of the games are highly ingenious and appeal to our morbid fascination of duelling to the death. The games allow us to root for an underdog as long as we can draw empathy towards that person or persons. Off the bat, we connect to Katniss Everdeen as she jumps in to take the place of her younger sister and represent district 12 along with Peeta. Suzanne Collins does a wonderful job of creating these 2 characters with very different characteristics and talents. Katniss starts to become more of a thinker and an icon, and Peeta is a strategist who later has to wrestle with psychological indoctrination. There is a strange bond between them and we watch how this develops and transitions across the trilogy.Sooner or later a people will rise up and challenge the state (the Capitol) and the end of the trilogy deals with this scenario. This political theme and uprising aren't as well dealt with as the excitement of the games themselves and I found the third book Mockingjay the weakest of the trilogy. It was satisfying that Katniss was also delivering and representing something much greater than her own issues to bring deeper meaning to the plot.It is so imaginative, adventurous and climactic, on a book by book basis, that it is very easy to highly recommend the trilogy.