Things I heard about this trilogy before reading it:- It's about kids fighting to the death for the entertainment of the capitol's citizens.- Just read the 1st book, because nobody likes how it all ends.- If you do read all of them, you'll notice they get less enjoyable as it goes on.- Those who don't just outright dislike the ending simply consider it appropriate.As a result, I read the books with these things in mind. I can say I understand why people would say those things, but I also take issue with why people would say those things.Why would people say those things? Because they are reading for entertainment, and expected an engaging plot with relatable characters and themes that would take them on a journey to another world. These books made the rounds through the ranks of those who were brought into the fold of readers by the success of Harry Potter, and that's the golden standard of what a story should be to them. The focus in the Potter books is on the plot and the characters' journey and growth through it all, and though they explore some mature themes, that element is used more as a storytelling device to drive character growth and plot development, and is only slipped in once the reader is enthralled by the world of the books and the characters within.In contrast, The Hunger Games trilogy is not about Katniss, Gale, and Peeta, and their adventures in the land of Panem, and should not be read as such. This is where people get confused in their reactions to the books, and those who focus on the plot and characters as if they were reading another Harry Potter often give up reading due to taking offense at the content and events of the books. Instead of the characters and plot being the focus, they are merely vessels for exploring the presented themes."It's about kids fighting to the death blah blah blah." If you summarize the plot of any particular dystopian novel you will likely end up with something that sounds just as appealing to the average reader(not appealing at all). Example: 1984 - A guy manages to escape government surveillance for a time (which time he pretty much squanders) and is eventually caught and tortured for his disobedience. Like other dystopias, the plot and characters are only vessels for exploring the themes, which is what the trilogy is really about. The Hunger Games trilogy is about exploitation and manipulation (including propaganda), class warfare, human suffering, and many other morally gray areas that people in general find it difficult to cope with and discuss. The books ask questions about the morality of war, crime, and punishment. They don't dodge the reality of death and loss, which comes even to those who try to do everything they can to prevent it. They explore many facets of human imperfection and how they translate into life."Just read the first book." This kind of mindset comes directly from what I described. The reader is reading about Katniss, and not thinking deeply about the themes being presented. If you had to end the series somewhere easy for Katniss, then yeah, just the first book would probably be best. She had to go through the torture of the games, and SOMETHING had to happen for there to be a story, but she's only got boy problems left. Aside from that, life appears to be back to normal.Except it isn't if you've been paying attention. How could life possibly ever be fine again for this young girl tortured and forced into murder by her government because she wanted to protect her little sister? There's a horde of deep moral questions raised that aren't resolved when the 1st book ends. If the reader was reading for the plot, they didn't notice or care for these, and the only question left is "who does Katniss end up with in the end?" which appears to be enough to propel people through the remaining two books otherwise there wouldn't be the continued poor reaction to the ending. The irony of it all is that someone reading these books with the mindset of needing to know what happens next is put in the position of comparing themselves to the citizens of the Capitol watching the televised games! "Who won the games?" is the question needing answering for both parties, and they are happy to set it aside after that has been answered (the first book). This ties into the "they get less enjoyable as they go on" experience as well. The themes come more and more to the forefront as the story progresses, and someone reading for the plot will definitely not enjoy so much death, confusion, and pain. They are reading for an escape, and do not want to be forced to think of the implications of such things.As for the very ending, notice how I said ending after the first book would be "easy" for Katniss, but didn't say it would be best. The ending is perfect, really. Yeah, it is definitely sad that happened after all of that pain and suffering, but would Katniss have made the choice to do what she did if that hadn't happened? I don't think she would. She's motivated for partially selfish reasons, and that's what allows her to get manipulated so much in the first place. Personally, I think the ending is about as Hollywood happy ending as it could be made without betraying the themes of the book.All of this being said, I gave it 4 out of 5 stars. Although I applaud the author for attempting to bring the Potter rabble into the realm of heavy fiction, her writing style blurs the line a little too much and leads to confusion over what the reader is supposed to get out of the experience. Those who regularly read and study the kind of books that explore these deeper topics should easily recognize the merit these books deserve, however.What I am most worried about is the movie adaptation. Will they effectively bring the thematic elements to the silver screen or will we be a nation enthralled by the special effects and intense action of the games, no better than the Capital citizens we detest?