I never got around to reading this series, though I bought the bundle back in September when it was on sale, until I started seeing the trailers for the movie. Then I saw an extended trailer at the theater and had to read itright now. I'll be going to see the movie, so I knew I had to read the books first.Hunger Games: I thought the first book was outstanding. Very compelling and somewhat horrifying, but the pacing and narrative voice sucked me in. As the mother of 11 and 16 year old boys, I did catch myself a few times imagining the Tributes as older, but I stopped doing that after a while. I couldn't put it down until I found out how it ended.Catching Fire: This book was mostly a bridge between the first and third books, but still a good read in its own right. One thing that kept me uneasy throughout was the love triangle. I'm not a fan of love triangles anyway, but this one seemed like more of an emotional knot than most. When I got to the end, i was so glad I had the bundle and could just turn the page to the next book. I would have been so mad if I'd read it when it first released and had to wait for the third book.Mockingjay: It fell apart a little with the third book. One thing I noticed as I was reading was that, because Katniss was our only POV character, a lot of the action took place off the page. We, as readers, had to sit around and wait with her to get a recap of the important events. It was still an engrossing read, though. And then came...the end.(view spoiler)[The death that occurs at the end took a big bite out of my enjoyment of the series as a whole. Because of Katniss's primary motivation throughout the entire series, that death was the true ending and it wasn't a happy one. I think it only served as a way to resolve the love triangle and I was disappointed, even though we get a happily ever after epilogue for Katniss.(hide spoiler)]I'm still giving the Hunger Games trilogy has a whole four stars, though, because it sucked me in and didn't let me go until the very last page. Since I don't read YA and I don't read post-apocalyptic fiction and I rarely read first person, that was quite a feat.