I know there has been more hoopla about reading this book all over the place. This is the first book I read since the HP Series finished. Not sure if I have been unable to accept that the Wizarding World is over in a way. For me It will never be over. I read and saw many of my online friends tweeting and shouting about The Hunger Games, so I decided it to give it a shot. I was not sure I was going to like it. Still I went to the expense of purchasing the trilogy, just in case. I did not want to buy one then the other and the other. It would have been more expensive.Right now just thinking about all the events went on in the books and I want to cry and rage and then be so terribly content. I hope Draco doesn't get upset with me, but I think have fallen in Love with Peeta. I hope he will continue to love me. I can't find words to express how much the trilogy has touched me. Not sure how much research Ms. Collins did on the effects of war and I've never been in a was so not sure if some of the characters reaction were realistic. I found them to feel so real though. Just thinking about Katniss' pain and Peeta's struggle to endure his flashbacks makes me appreciate the world we in a little more. War causes so much damage and seeing your loved ones go through events and situations like that is not something I wish on my worst enemy. Not sure what other readers might think or feel, but these are mine.On Gale; he is such a prick. I know he didn't think that his ideas would get used the way they did, bu the should have been aware that anything that can get them more points towards being seen as better was going to be used. Yes he is handsome and had more kisses given and taken, but I have so much anger towards him.My Peeta; I think about him and my eyes fill with tears. I can't help but just thinking of his and Katniss' last conversation. "Real or not real?" I hope that anyone in here who has not read the books will get down to business and read them. Buy them if you can, they are worth every penny.Elizabeth