I really feel these books need to be evaluated together, as they are meant to be read together. I found the books simultaneously compelling and painful and while I read them in what amounts to about 2 days worth of reading, they were incredibly fatiguing to read. It is Shirley Jackson's The Lottery, meets reality tv, meets Wag the Dog. Here are my thoughts on the different aspects of the books, please be aware of spoilers and if you don't want to read them, stop here. (What's the point of talking about a book without talking through the details.)The Love Triangle:I'll get this out of the way first, since it really is the most boring. After the ridiculous love triangle of the Twilight series, I hoped for something different as soon as this love story was introduced. I was disappointed. Here again, we have a teenage girl that has essentially already made up her mind (Gale is actually her choice, but more on that later), but continues to string two guys along throughout the series. While I found it believable that she was blissfully unaware of Peeta's feelings for her, it was completely unbelievable that she remains in ignorance for so long. Maybe her distrustful nature? Whatever. Then he can't figure out that she isn't sincere??? Didn't Collins spend half the books telling us what a terrible actress she is? The whole thing was a bit uninspired with no real passion from any of them. When Peeta confronts her flaws in Mockingjay as he sorts out Real and Not Real, I was actually amused - he finally got it right. Despite all this, I did want her to end up with Peeta, but then again, I usually pick the right "ship" in any series - the authors always leave clues people.Katniss:As a protagonist, I thought Collins did an excellent job here. Katniss is likable, but deeply flawed. She is self-sacrificing, yet self-effacing, proactive, yet short-sighted, intuitive, but sort of clueless. She lacks Harry Potter's ability to always come up with the right solution (which I liked) and Bella Swan's complete shallowness (which I loved). I liked that she perceived things all wrong and that we, the readers, were aware of her misjudgments. She was strong at times and weak at times, a consummate survivor that is thoroughly wreaked by her experiences. Sadly, I found this character largely missing in the final book, Mockingjay. I thought there was an absolutely beautiful scene in the war room as the characters named off the moments in the previous books in which Katniss herself had moved them. Of course, they were the same moments that had moved me, that made me care about the protagonist, that made her extraordinary. All that disappeared in Mockingjay and was replaced by a hysterical drug addict that was too self-absorbed to be of any use to anyone. What happened? While I respect that she went through hell twice, which is more than any 16-17 year old would be able to handle without completely losing it, the realism saddened me a little bit because I wanted her to inspire people again, not as a symbol, but as a person.Themes:First of all, I love dystopian lit. Maybe I'm morbid, but I really love when a writer can show us where our current path is leading. I think this is the area that divides the fans and the haters. Either you hated the books for the graphic violence and despicable premise or you resonated with how wrong we can really go. As a mother, I would like to say that I would have stood up to a government killing our children for entertainment, but would I be that strong? Would I, like the characters that voted for a revenge Hunger Games, reason that it was better than a mass slaughter? I don't know, and God-willing, none of us will ever have to face that decision, but it does make you wonder.What I loved about Collins' handling of this concept is how much the good guys struggled to remain "good guys." The rebels manipulate Katniss and leave her to fight for her life just as President Snow does - always for "the greater good." It is the fact that Katniss never manages to escape being a pawn in someone's game that is so compelling and tragic. Just when one game is over and you think she has persevered, she is thrown into another, and another, and another.Oddly, I was quite intrigued by the lifestyle of the Capitol people. The absurd obsession with fashion, the media circus invading every aspect of life, the indifference to horror, the over-indulgence leading to quick fixes (the drink that makes you throw-up, the full body polish) all of it comments directly on our modern day shallowness. What I really found profound was Katniss' observation that it was all about them. Every horror she had lived through, they experienced only as it affected them. How true that is. The media, the internet, all of it has made us feel like we have experienced so much, when in reality it never even touches us. It's not our fault - we couldn't handle truly feeling every moment of suffering the world has, but it does make me wonder what damage it is doing to our souls to be so aware and so indifferent.The Ending:Sad. What's more, I was glad for it. Unlike the absurdity that was Breaking Dawn, Mockingjay leaves us devastated by losses we didn't know would affect us and numb to losses that we thought would bring us to tears. It was, after all, a war. What confused me the most was not that there were unexpected losses, but the absence of Katniss' mother at the end. I get that she would not want to go back to 12, but why doesn't Katniss stay with her? As a mother, if I had lost both my husband and one child, I would keep my remaining family close. Then there was the Gale/Peeta thing. In Catching Fire, Katniss chooses Gale. She is clear that her relationship with Peeta is a contrived show, but she really does care about him and loves him to a degree. However, she knows that she and Gale belong to each other. When she is sent back to the games, she gives up on Gale and finds herself needing Peeta again. The conversation between the two love intrests in Mockingjay, in which Gale declares Katniss will choose who she needs to survive attempts to set-up this great choice and we are left to wonder how she will choose. Then, by chance, when Gale's bomb kills Prim, her choice is made for her. She can't stand the thought that he inadvertently killed Prim, so he heads off to District 2 leaving Peeta to pick up the pieces of what's left of her. Oh well, they seem to be reasonably happy together eventually. Although, the epilogue felt . . . resigned and emotionally distant. Overall, I appreciated the messiness of the ending, the sense of moving on without tying up all the loose ends neatly.Despite my criticisms, I really felt that this was an excellent series. It made me feel and it made me think, which is what good books should do. Those that criticize the simplicity of the writing or the non-preciseness of the grammatical structure, are plain silly. It is prose for young adults. Those that find the subject matter too disturbing, I understand, it is meant to disturb you. Overall, it was one of the most compelling books or series of books I have read in a long time, so I think that counts for something.