I made the mistake of not reviewing each book as I finished it and since I read them one right after another I can no longer distinguish what happened in and my thoughts of each book separately. So for now I will voice my opinion on the trilogy.Where to even begin? These books are completely awesome and if you are reading reviews then you probably already know what the books are about so need to go over old news! lolIn the beginning I loved Katniss, she was strong, feisty and knew what she wanted out of life. To provide for her family, keep her sister safe, hunt in the woods for some peace and freedom, spend time with her best friend Gale and never marry or have children that the capitol could later torture. When she volunteers to take her sister's place in the hunger games all of that changes. From the moment she volunteers her life is no longer her own, she is subject to a mulitude of people who tell her what to do from how she looks and dresses to what to say to how to stay alive in the deadly hunger games. We are with her while she slowly transforms from a rebellious teenager forced to grow up too soon to a victor who wins the brutal hunger games and forces the ever selfish and evil capitol to allow her friend/"lover"/fellow district 12 tribute to win as well, to an angry bitter girl who feels she has no control to a nationwide symbol of rebellion and strength and honor to a broken and used up shell of who she once was. Honestly, at times it was hard to read, especially in the last book when she begins to give up entirely. But I think that is natural, I think there is no other way for someone who has gone through what she has to transform any other way. And I think in the end she heals and she comes to terms in her own way with all that has happened. Thank God she shot Coin! At least she had that moment of clarity to make her mark to say no more hunger games, no more dictators who do not care about people. I was proud in that moment when just pages before I wanted to kill her when she agreed to yet ANOTHER hunger games.The atrocities that happen in this book and the way of life the people are forced to endure was unbelieveable. It was hard to imagine a world where parents and whole communities willingly send in two of their own children to kill each other for entertainment and to "teach a lesson". In the first book we get no real sence of how these people can do this and not fight back and not rebel and not knock the capitol on it's ass. It made me angry and that's why I was angry everytime I read about someone saying or thinking that a rebellion was prepostrous, that is the only choice you people have! That's what I was thinking! It made me angry how long it took Katniss to join the rebellion willingly and even then it was like no one could see the big picture which was very frustrating. I guess because they had lived this way so long (74 years of sending your children to kill each other on tv) that all the people, the capitol people and the district people were desensitized to violence and death. It blew my mind how easy it was for those kids to kill each other and for the stupid people in the capitol to get joy out of it.I liked how fast paced the books are, you cannot stop reading because your favorite characters are constantly battling between life and death, good and evil, love and hate. There is no black and white in these books, which is like true life. People are not good or bad but a combination of the two, of course some have more good then others and vice versa. It's the same with government, the same with relationships, the same with pretty much everything. This book does an amazing job of demonstrating that and keeping things in balance. That's probably the thing that I took the most from this series, that there are no absolutes, there is no clear black and white but a multitude of colors and grays and every voice has a different side of the story.And now on to the relationships. To me the most profound and touching relationship was between Peeta and Katniss. I just love love Peeta. He is so pure and kind and loves Katniss so much. I spent the etire series waiting for him to die and I was sooooo very happy in the end when not only did he live but he got Katniss! I knew she loved him, how could she not? I knew from teh way she kept his pearl, was willing to die for him just as she was for Prim and the way she could never ever keep her mind from him and the way she saw all the good he represented in a very bad world. I never bought into a romantic type love betwen her and Gale. I think he was more the brother figure, at least to her. No doubt he felt more for her but Peeta was such the better man.I loved Haymitch even though he is a drunk jerk, he cared about Kat niss and Peeta and that endeared him to me.I also loved Finnick and am still pissed he died. There was no reason for that! AHHHH.Well I think I could go on and on forever on my thoughts about these books so I guess I will stop here. It is good, amazingly good if you can stomach betrayal, loss of hope, devestation, children killing and dying, torture and every other horrible thing you can imagine. Some people can't but I for one loved this series!