A mockingjay is a creature the Capitol never intended to exist. They hadn't counted on the highly controlled jabberjay having the brains to adapt to the wild, to pass on its genetic code, to thrive in a new form. They hadn't anticipated its will to live.What did I think? Good question. For the last 2% I didn't think anything, I just felt heartbroken, sad, remorseful, regretful, desperate, full of loss and melancholic. I read these books back to back and it was a lot to take in. The last book had a strong melancholic feel to it, because it felt like I had gone through so much with the characters. From the moment they call out Prim's name at the reaping up until the end of book three, so freaking much happens and the characters I came to love change so much. And nothing makes me hit the five star button faster than melancholy to the point where it makes me cry.Which is not to say I didn't like a few things. I'm reviewing this trilogy as a whole and as a whole it was pretty damn good. But here's what I hated.(view spoiler)[The triangle with Peeta and Gale was totally unnecessary and stupid. Here you have two amazing guys who love Katniss. And then there's Katniss who just walks around in denial and gives away kisses left and right. Kiss Gale when he's hurting, kiss Peeta when he's mad. She needed to make up her mind already and fully go for one of them. I love Katniss, honestly, but I hate the way she handled this whole thing. I would've been fine with whoever she chose. As long as she just chose someone and fully went for it. Again, I think this triangle was completely unnecessary, especially if the author was planning to gloss over the love story the way she did. Because let's face it. There was no satisfaction in the emotional love department. I needed some true love moments, but she just ran away when Peeta went mad and she kept Gale at a distance because, I don't know why. Until Gale exited himself and she just kind of ended up with Peeta.I'm also kind of bitter about all of my favorite characters dying except for Haymitch and Gale. I loved loved loved Cinna. He died. But I understand his death. He sacrificed himself for the Mockingjay. Died when I read the noteI'm still betting on you.Then Boggs broke my heart. And Finnick's death was devastating. I went back to double check, because, really? Besides the fact that I loved him bunches, Annie lost the only person who kept her somewhat sane. Their love story was stronger than Katniss's. Devastated!!! And then Prim died. And I didn't believe it, because this whole thing started in an attempt to keep her alive. But this trilogy stopped being about Prim the moment Katniss felt she understood Peeta's words on the rooftop before the first Game. It stopped being about Prim when Katniss decided she didn't want to be a piece in the Capitol's games and she fought for freedom, dignity and a future. Still, Prim's death devastated me. I broke down and sobbed when Buttercup came to their house in 12 and grieved with Katniss.(hide spoiler)]There were so many amazing side characters with their own story. They really made the trilogy for me. I could totally see Effie being cluelessly overjoyed, Johanna being blunt and bitchy and who doesn't know a Delly that thinks everyone in the world is kind and nice? I loved how real the characters all were. Katniss is still my favorite female character. And I still love Gale.(view spoiler)["That was the only thing I had going for me. Taking care of your family."sob! Back to what I hated. I hate how easily Gale was dispelled from her life. He was such a huge part of it. They were so close and they knew each other like the back of their hands. To have him just... Leave.. What the fuck? And where were Peeta and Gale when Katniss was wandering around in the mansion like a crazy woman? Gah it's all just so stupid. No passion there, at all. Not with Peeta, not with Gale. We just got fed a few kisses here and there. Okay whatever I need to let this go. But I don't think it's fair to make both men such a huge part in her life and then to just gloss over it.Sorry excuses for hunters and friends. Both of us.(hide spoiler)]