This was written in 2011, and is not representative of my current output on here. Please forgive me.(view spoiler)[5.0.Though lately my luck has been changing for the better, it is still exceedingly rare that a book, complete with a good story and well-thought-out characters to whom I can relate, is anything more than, well, just that. A good story that was intellectually stimulating and fun to read, but which has not changed me in any fundamental way, or given me any insight into the human condition that I didn't previously have. I hardly ever hand out five-star ratings here, and the books which get them are much more than that. The World According to Garp is one of those books. And even if it wasn't, I might still give it five stars, because it has other merits which make its literary quality far higher than that of the average bestselling novel, and even certain classics, assuming, of course, that Garp has not already advanced its way to classic status by now, even though most of Irving's other work is, like that of the titular character, maligned by many, I would even venture to say a majority of, people. Just look at the Goodreads ratings for a few of his other books which aren't Garp or a Prayer for Owen Meany, and you'll see what I mean.First, the bad parts. Yes, there are several things about this book which filled me with seething anger, made me curse John Irving as a foolish hack, and wonder how this book could possibly have gotten popular when it was so unrelentingly shitty. I will talk about them in the following paragraph.So, now that all that vitriolic ranting is out of my system, about the rest of it. Wonderful, a delight to read, and, unlike most classic bestsellers, worth all the hype about it.The first thing that struck me about this book as I began to read was the asexuality of Garp's mother, Jenny, and the way she was treated by Irving. I probably don't need to mention that, because the status update where I expressed my amazement that this character even existed was read and liked by everyone and their pet duck, or so it seemed. But I will, for the uninformed.Bare with me while I am completely blunt for a minute. This will have relevance later, I promise.I am asexual. I experience no sexual attraction to any one or thing. If five of the world's most beautiful women captured me in a hotel room, and smashed their chuchas in my face while telling me that I could engage in whatever practice I wanted with them, I would have to turn that shit down, because the sexual act has about as much appeal to me as having nails driven into your genitals by a guy with a nine-pound sledge hammer would be to you. Except it would sound more like "Mmmm cmmmmt brmmrrrmthe. Grrrrmmmt offa mmm, rrsshmmmles." my interest in romantic relationships is almost equal to that of my interest in sex. The only difference is that I contend that if a relationship came along, and I felt it could work out, I would be willing to pursue it, but until it comes along, I will make less than no effort to look for one, because I don't care about them, and I am not so arrogant as to believe that someone is going to be in a sexless relationship just for the pleasure of my company (what little pleasure there would be in my company, anyway; I can't think of very many things more emotionally agonising than spending time with me.) I've got my books and writing and the few online friends who can put up with me for any extended period of time, and that's all I need.Now that we've gotten past that, I think its necessary to talk about the reception to asexuality by the wider world. For the most part, the people I've told have been incredulous that I could live life without wanting sex, but basically excepting. They don't understand it, and I think half of them think it's something I'll grow out of in a few years, but that doesn't matter to me, because I'm just relieved that they're not telling me that I am a freak or ill and need to head down to a doctor to get my hormones checked, because that shit is seriously annoying. Besides, once more time passes and they see that I still haven't had sex or dated anyone, they'll get the point and realise I'm not changing. The other reactions I've gotten range from "You'll grow out of it once you find the right person" to "You are deathly ill and need to go to a doctor immediately because there is no possibility that any living human can live without sexual attraction." And, though it's depressing to admit, that's probably the reaction I would get from more people if I bothered to bring it up.Keeping all that in mind, can you see why I was amazed that a book, written in the seventies, in the time just after professionals stopped referring to homosexuality as "sexual inversion", and by a heterosexual male contains an otherwise healthy and normal character who just happens to not want sex? Yes, a lot is made of her asexuality throughout the book, but that's the way it would play out in real life, especially back then, when the majority of women were supposed to get married and pump out as many children as they could. Equally surprising to me was the fact that she never changed, was never convinced of the abnormality of her orientation by seeing a really hawt guy and wanting to hold him down and fuck him till he couldn't walk anymore, never unearthed any terrible memories of abuse which turned her off of sex forever, never went to a therapist who sexed her life right up with a bang, never wrote any secret diaries which were later found and revealed that it was all an act, because that kind of cop-out cowshit is what I was expecting. Until the end of the book, I kept expecting one or more of the events listed to play out somehow, but they never did.Speaking of real life, that's another thing which sets this novel apart from all of the other books of this type I've read. While reading, I couldn't apply the same almost clinical detachment I normally would for the majority of books I read, because it didn't read like a novel about fictional characters. It was as if the book was nothing more than a window into the lives of these people, and I was looking in. Every action, thought, and emotion was described with such detail that at times, I felt as if I was eavesdropping on their lives rather than simply reading about them, which was helped by the frequent shifts in point of view. It takes a great writer to do something like that. James Agee is one of them. Well, was. He's kind of dead. But you get the point. Irving is another.At first, I was annoyed by Irving's decision to show us only one or two events in Garp's childhood and adolescence, and focus exclusively on his adult life, because I thought it made the book feel a little rushed, but after I was further into the book, I began to see how that decision bespoke the depths of his genius. Let's be honest, here. I know many people love to pule about how tough life is these days, and how they wish they could go back to their childhoods when shit was a whole lot easier, but really, aside from that, what went on back then that you would consider interesting enough to put in a book about yourself? Maybe I think this way because my childhood was terrible, and I wouldn't repeat it for anything (if only because I would have to experience once again what a colossal asshole I was back then), and maybe other people's childhoods are filled with some sort of mystery and magic that I never experienced, but I can't find much of anything I would write about myself. There were a few character-building moments that I would write, but otherwise, it was just a blur of school and music listening and TV watching and stabbing and sleeping and more school and even more school and listening to people yell and fight with each other and more TV watching. And that's the case here. Irving skips through all of that shit about which no one cares, and just gives us the character-building. The book slows down considerably once it gets to his adolescence because that's when most people's maturation really begins.It also served another purpose. Because he's such a detailed writer, I got a chance to see how his characters changed, sometimes drastically, over the course of their lives. I loved Garp's wife, Helen, when she was introduced, but as she got older, there was something about her which made her more annoying, and near the end, I began to like her again. But that's okay. I don't see why a lot of my fellow readers have such a giant, throbbing hard-on for likeable characters. In reviews, I consistently see people take the ratings of books, including this one, down by a star or two because the characters are not likeable. Why? Why is an author obligated to make their protagonists people with whom you can identify and like? Art should imitate life to some extent, right? And we can all agree that some people, no matter how loveable they were as children, end up good, and others are intolerable dickholes with faces in need of a beating? Why should literature be any different? Granted, it is possible to write an unlikable character badly, and perhaps this is what people are complaining about, but as far as I'm concerned, it takes talent to make me feel any way about a character, whether that feeling is good or not. But anyway, back to the book. There were several times when I was disoriented by how different Garp or Helen or any of the others were in their adulthood than they were as adolescents, and later, when I thought about that, I wondered if Irving was, intentionally or not, trying to make me feel like a parent. How many parents have looked at their grown children, and not been able to help thinking of the way they were when they were much younger, and thought something along the lines of that cliched TV parent line, "They grow up so fast."? Was that, in fact, another reason for the casual dismissal of Garp's childhood? Because to parents, their children's passage into adulthood is, in hindsight, not much more than a blur of history with a few moments that stand out? Maybe I'm just overanalyzing. I don't have children, and never will, so maybe I'm wrong, and no parent thinks like that.Finally, though this may seem insignificant, I was surprised to find that Garp's writing style in his novels and story was different than that of Irving's. This will take some explaining. In about 95% of the books I read where writers are the main characters and excerpts of their writing is presented, one of three things will happen. Either the writer in question will sound identical to the real author of the excerpt, and it rings false, the author will attempt unsuccessfully to imitate another real author who writes in the same genre as their character, and it rings false, or the author will try so hard to give the character their own voice without doing either of the other two things that the writing becomes terrible, and rings false. In all but one of the 69,105 books written by Stephen King, when I read excerpts of his characters' writing, I can still tell that they were originally written by Stephen King, because they still have a certain sound to them which is trademark King, no matter who the fictional author is. When I was younger, and stupider, and knew close to nothing about books, I read most of the Left Behind series by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins. One of the main characters is named Buck Williams, and he is the best reporter of all time. This guy has won a shit ton of awards, including the Pulitzer prize, and is praised by everyone. You may want to get ready, because I'm going to quote one sentence of his prose, and it is going to change your life forever. This is deep, man. I almost guarantee that by the time you are finished reading this, you will book an airplane, and take a giant, laxative-induced shit all over Flannery O'connor's grave while screaming, "You have never writed more goodlyer than Buck Williams!" The writers among my readers may want to stop now, because this sentence will destroy any aspirations they may have had. Here goes:"To say the Israelis were taken by surprise is like saying the Great Wall of China is long."Now, I'm not going to say that this is the single best line of reportage ever penned, and that after I read it, I went to a bookshop and bought copies of every book by Christopher Hitchens just so I could burn them lest one more member of the public be subjected to his inferior wordsmithing ever again. That would be biased, and this is an objective analysis. All I'm saying is that if you don't believe this is the single best line of reportage ever penned, you are a moronic troll with no taste who probably thinks Harry Potter and Wicked are the height of serious literature. You know what I'm saying? Because I kind of forgot what I'm supposed to be saying.But anyway. I found that line on TV Tropes, and I don't love my readers enough to infest my computer with those books just so I can find more excerpts, but all of his writing is like that: Filled with purple prose and clumsy analogies. And therein lies the problem of making your characters writers. If the writer wins awards and is loved by everyone (not entirely the case with Garp, but he is respected as a serious literary figure, kind of, which is why I bring it up), and what excerpts you give are terrible, my willing suspension of disbelief will come crashing down. Yet Irving somehow avoided this pitfall, and managed to write well and have a new and different voice at the same time.So can you tell I kind of liked this book?(hide spoiler)]