I have put off reviewing this book because I didn't know exactly what to say. Looking over my "Year in Books" on Goodreads I noticed that while I gave this 4 stars Mason &amp; Dixon only got 3. Was this book really a whole star better than Pychon's quinteseintial American novel?No, I don't believe so. But I do believe that this book is worthy of 4 stars and that M&amp;D only gained 3 in my reading.They are different and maybe this star system is flawed because it treats every book the same. There is no standard to say that 3 stars means this and 4 means that. Would I read this book again? Most likely not. Would I read M&amp;D again? I most definitely will.So with all that out of the way let's talk about this book.Going into it I suffered from 2 types of blindness.1. I knew nothing about World War 1. Sure I studied it in school 20+ years ago but since then I have not researched any of it. After reading this book the war remains vague. I have no will to research it further. I think this is a good thing though as Hemingway's war could have been any war and the things he discusses are easily transferable.2. I suffered from, and still partially do, Hemingway Blindness. This is the type of blindness that permeates all of his work. It is Hemingway, it has to be good. More than any other writer of his generation Hemingway has built up a legend surrounding both him and his work that is tough to get past. He wrote about a different time, A time when men were men and tough guys who fought were the true heroes. Hemingway didn't mix words or use flowery language he told it like it is.It don't think this image of Hemingway will ever change for me. Although, I did notice a few cracks in his mirror. There was some sloppy writing here. There were some views that went against the definition of what a "real man" is.Perhaps Hemingway was not what the world has made him out to be?I'll have to read more of his writing to make a final call on that. Not this book again though.I understand that I have yet to really talk about the plot or the characters of this book but what can I say? There is a war. Some people die. Others live. The narrator (Henry) doesn't really stop to consider death too much until he does.