Gut reaction review:WTF!!!Post blown-gasket review:A Storm of Swordsshould be calledA Storm of Suitorsfor all the matchmaking going on through out. I'm not complaining, mind you. It's all handled with a touch (or sometimes a bludgeoning) of intrigue to keep it interesting.Ah yes, the soap opera continues, and much of it this tome around is about who weds who in hopes of attaining which castle or what lands. The court intrigue of lords and ladies is good and all, but I doubt it would've kept me reading on if Martin hadn't added a little murder here and a bloody siege there. The magic-and-monsters aspect of this fantasy comes in a little heavier than it has in past books, too. I prefer my fantasy more grounded in reality, so this had me edging towards a hint of queasiness at times, but all told, it was nothing I couldn't stomach.Actually, one area where fantasy is strongest was one of my favorite parts. I absolutely rejoiced at finally seeing some real, meaty north of the Wall action! And Jon Snow (who knows nothing, btw) remains one of my favorite characters from the very start.One quibbling complaint: Martin dropped the ball once or twice in this book like I've never seen him do before. Characters need to be believable within the scope of the world they inhabit. If they are not, say if they act contrary to their own nature as previously displayed, we the reader stop following them, at least not with the same gusto. Such is the case involving(view spoiler)[Sansa. Her willingness to go with Ser Dontos and let him 'take her home' when she knew full well she had no home to go back to was Martin's false step in his effort to get Sansa into Little Finger's clutches.(hide spoiler)]It's forced and just plain sloppy.However, all that pales in comparison to one absolutely shocking moment (see original review...never mind, I'll just reprint it here:WTF!!!) that took me completely by surprise. I'm not saying it was a Martin-mistep, but I'm just coming around from my stunned stupor. In and of itself it would mean nothing to someone who hadn't read the first two books, but being fully ensconced in the soap opera as I am, it had great meaning....I'm really trying my hardest not to revert to spoiler masks here...so let me just say - it was like having the rug pulled out from under me, but then feeling some satisfaction upon learning that the same thing happened to my asshole neighbor - and I'll leave it at that.