Second read on 19/03/2016 - 26/04/2016I haven't been reading as much as I would like to these days. Aside from this series, which is more of a commitment than anything else, I rarely reach for other books. Perhaps it's because I'm reading nonfiction, but I rarely feel enthusiastic about reading. So far the reading year hasn't been amazing. And I don't think it has to do with the books, but my inability to enjoy them as I used to. Nevertheless, I've noticed that all the books I've re-read recently, I've enjoyed even more than I did the first time.I saw the first episode of the new season ofGame of Throneson Sunday with my dad. Due to a horrific episode in the previous season, I had vowed to never watch it again. Unsurprisingly I decided to give it another chance. In all honesty, I feel as if the show is doing far better than the books regarding its plot. Yes, these books have altered my outlook on reading completely. They have changed my taste overall more than anything else has. Still, until the series is complete, I can't consider it a favourite. There are so many loose ends and no guarantee that they'll ever be tied off.The hope that Martin will complete the series before his death is contagious, but as time passes, I'm beginning to realise how completely unrealistic it is. The show has moved on and my hopes for a conclusion are gradually fading altogether. I sound pessimistic, I know. In all fairness, this is an excellent series and one I'd recommend to nearly everyone. It's absolutely worth the time spent and even the high probability that it will never be completed.I think I've mentioned it before, but reading these again has made me far more tolerant of the POV characters. Karl (my fellow buddy reader) only likes a few (Arya, Tyrion, and Davos), whereas I hardly have any I dislike. Perhaps Samwell, who's the character Martin says he himself resembles best. That explains a lot. The first time I read these I barely liked any of the characters, but now for whatever reason, I can appreciate most of them and it's sort of refreshing.I rarely make updates for these books like I used to and in my reviews I hardly discuss the plot. I apologise, but in the end I feel as if I'm enjoying it too much to make updates. There's too much to talk about to ever fit into one review, and that's disregarding any spoilers. Reading the first half of this book felt like a prison sentence. I didn't want to finish the series and was only doing so because Karl and I had agreed that we would. I never wanted to read a book again, and not because I didn't like books, but because things were a mess. My health for one. Stress from family, The whole not-going-to-college thing, etc. Things I haven't mentioned here and probably won't because I feel they're too dull to elaborate on. In the midst of all this I somehow found that I was able to escape again in the pages of this book. I feel like a lot have things have changed since the first time I read this, but my love for it remains. If anything, it's only increased.First read on 30/03/2015 - 13/05/2015It's seven in the morning and I already haveThe Bear and the Maiden Fairplaying on repeat. I think I'm really beginning to appreciate this series. Each book so far has been better than the one before it. Martin's story, if ever he manages to finish it, may very well become one of my favourites.This book was darker than the other two, but this just made it all the more exciting. It feels like this is where things are finally starting to pick up. Some loose ends were finally tied off too, so that was good.The characters were amazing as always. The younger ones in particular are developing wonderfully. Daenerys and Arya are becoming stronger, Sansa wiser, and even Bran's chapters are improving. Some characters I'm not too fond of, but even Jaime isn't quite as bad as I thought him to be.From beginning to end, this book was as good as the stuff under Casterly Rock. I wish I could say more, and there really is so much more to be said, but I'm at a point in the series where practically anything can be seen as a spoiler.I'm pretty happy with myself though. I'm almost at the part in the series where the show is currently (the fifth episode of the fifth season). I didn't think I'd get here so soon, but here I am.I was considering taking a brief break due to the recent reading slump I've been suffering, but I started the series in December, so whatever the argument, it's a poor one. Onwards!