Northern Lights / The Golden Compass - 12Nov164 starsBreathtaking and smart and utterly brilliant. Reading several of Pullman's interviews has made me decide to re/read the Chronicles of Narnia at some point in 2017; the misconception that His Dark Materials is a direct rebuttal of Narnia has interested me for years, and then to finally read this and hear from Pullman himself that it is NOT said rebuttal makes it that much more interesting. I love the idea of the church being the ruthless/villain entity, much like the Library in theInk and Boneseries. And the daemons! Such a fantastic idea :) The ending was a sucker punch and I can definitely say I wasn't expecting it. I loved meeting the ice bears and I'm looking forward to the next book!I liked the film adaptation for its effects and the cast. The script just suffered unendingly, poor thing, and that made it utter crap overall.The Subtle Knife - 18Oct174 starsFirst of all, I'm amazed that I didn't make mention in my Golden Compass review of how fantastic the full cast audiobook is. If anyone wants to do a reread or even pick it up for the first time, it's really easy to follow. Pullman does the overall narration himself, and I swear to god he sounds like Liam Neeson. (Score!)This book follows the dark tone of the first; as in the real world, villains never look like villains and they're everywhere. No more ice bears in this one, but we are introduced to Will, and Serafina Pekkala and Lee Scoresby are back :) The idea of church/religion vs science breaks through a little more clearly in this book, so we can see that an inevitable war is brewing.And then it had to end on a goddamn cliffhanger, and it threw all my reading plans out of whack. (But I'm sure Amber Spyglass will be worth it, so whatever.)The Amber Spyglass - 1Nov174 starsThe final chapter brings sadness, as final books always do. I wasn't able to start this as quickly as I wanted to, but once I did I actually found it tough to keep up in places. Between the angels and the Authority and using the subtle knife EVERYWHERE (or so it seemed), I think I lost the thread of the story for a short while early on. Venturing into the Land of the Dead brought me right back though; I definitely cried when Lyra had to leave Pan. And the ending wasn't the happiest we all could have wished for, but I think it gives the best closure. This is, after all, a story about growing up, and growing up means you have to do things you don't always want to do. Something about facing a choice between what is right and what is easy... different series, same idea ;) I'll be ever glad to have visited this world (worlds?) and I'm looking forward to the new Book of Dust series so I can come back!Trilogy overall - 5 starsThis is one of those series everyone should read. It's brilliant.Sidenote: Funny how it took me exactly a year to read this trilogy.