I don't usually write reviews, in fact this is my first on goodreads. This is a memoir of my connection to this book.My wife (yes I call my girlfriend my wife, so is the bond) gave this to me.We have a habit of gifting each other books. This was one of such events. Yet, it was so different. She warned me not to read To Kill A Mockingbird and I had a hunch that she is going to present it to me.The book she also added in the package happened to be The Book Thief. She said that she is giving her heart to me. And upon reading it, it was aptly so.This book is a heartwarming tale of people in hardships, who find happiness in small little corners of life. Rudy, who lived a short yet a conquering life. Liesel, the protagonist who understood things so well. Perhaps this why my wife had so big an impact of Markus Zusak's creation of this fictitious character. I asked my wife on a blind date and the first day all we talked about was how can I not have read the book?Yes, how could I have not? I have read quite a humongous volume of books and I missed this one. The reason was because my wife had to gift this to me. I called her chapter after chapter, sharing the feelings and jitters and nightmares that I shared with Liesel and Max. I was catapulted to the WWII era of bombings and counting every single heartbeat just in case I was wiped away by one bomb.I am glad my wife listened patiently to each of these fears, soothed me on every occasion like she always does. The Hubermanns had a touching sense about them. The story to us is not heartbreaking but heartwarming.The moment Max came out of his hiding, just to watch the sky he has not seen in months, whilst others crouched fearing for their lives : that moved me. The chord that my wife wanted to strike with me had found its mark. I called her and cried and described what it feels like to remain in a room filled with your own thoughts. All that she said was nothing. She understood. She always does.She told me in the end one thing very cheerfully that summarizes the entire book for both of us. The line was "This book stands a cornerstone in my life because you read it. And with you I read."I told you, this is not a review. It is just a recollection of our memories associated with this book.Many books will come and many books will find a place in our bookshelves over the years. But this book gets the best place in our hearts.