So here are my predictions for the Last Sacrifice.First of all I think Tasha Ozera killed the queen. If you go back to Rhonda's reading it says that she has an enemy and implies that it is a woman and at the time Rose thinks its Tatiana so she just dismisses it but I think that it is really Tasha. She is smart and clever and I think she has a Victor complex and she thinks shes doing it to better the Moroi and dhampir society. Abe is clearly going to break Rose out of jail because he promised her she wouldn't go to trial, so he is obviously going too break her out before the trial even begins and she is going to go on a journey to find Lissa half sis/bro (which I agree could be Jill.) Clearly Dimitri still loves Rose and is just saying that "love fades. mine has." because he doesn't want to hurt her anymore then he has. But i think he is going to do everything in his power to protect her from the royal guard and he's going to admit that he still loves hers. I have a feeling that Rose is going to come threw and find Lissa's sibling so that she gets her seat on the Royal Court and I also think she could potentially be the next queen.As for the "Last Sacrifice" title I think that it could be two possible options. Option one is that is is Rose's sacrifice because clearly she already has sacrificed so much and she is going to sacrifice her career has a guardian to be with Dimitri. This theory come from Blood Promise when Avery looked through Roses mind, maybe her spirit abilities allowed her to look too the future and she and Dimitri really will end up together. Which means Lissa and Christian will end up together and would live at Court. If this happens then I hope Adrian ends up with someone because I love him and I sort of want him to be with Rose but I'm torn. I think that he will end up saving someones life like Sydney and then she will be shadow-kissed and it will save him from the madness and they will fall in love. (she did admit that she thought he was attractive in Spirit Bound)Okay so option two. The "Last Sacrifice" could be Dimitri's sacrifice. I feel that if he isn't able to get over the things he did as a Strogi then he is going to end up dying somehow by sacrificing himself to save Rose somehow. It is going to be some dramatic seen and he is going to tell Rose that he has always loved her and he would rather die so that she could be happy. If this happens then I think Rose and Adrian will end up getting married and having children and they will live at court and Lissa and Christian will be there too. I also think that its possible that Eddie and Mia will hook up and maybe the spin-off series will follow them also with Sydney and Lissa's half bro/sis.