What to say aboutLast Sacrifice?Well, I have to say that I think everything that happened in this book was bittersweet yet inevitable. This book opened up more possibilities than any other book in theVampire Academyseries thus far had -- and, though this book brought an end to Rose's first-account tale, the story is far, far from over. As a fan, I really can't wait to see where the characters will go from here, how they will grow, what struggles they will have in the uncertain future. Unlike other endings to series, this wasn't an "end-all" book -- and, while that was disappointing to me, I can't say it wasn't expected. There were too many loose ends to tie, too many fates to determine, too many answers to give in the pages allotted.Richelle Mead says in her Acknowledgements page that she "[hopes] you'll continue to enjoy the many Moroi and dhampir adventures to come." I feel a little dismayed by that since that makes it sound as though the books will continue endlessly. I already know Mead has a six-book series ahead of her still -- but could more follow? Personally, I'd rather have an ending where I could ponder the characters' futures for myself than follow them for the rest of my life.This book, however, cements my desire to see the journeys ahead for a few characters -- namely, Adrian the Moroi spirit user with the vice habits and Sydney the Alchemist who aided Rose through quite a few misadventures. (I'm also interested in an unusual Moroi by the name of Angeline; I'm certain Mead has plans for her as well.) The next VA series is set to be third-person, so chances are more likely than not that we'll see POVs from Adrian and Sydney at some points. (I'm also keeping my fingers crossed for a romance -- but that's just me.)Overall -- yes, I liked this book. Yes, there were things I didn't like about it. Do I think Rose's "growth" was genuine throughout the series? No, not at all. I felt she didn't learn ENOUGH lessons. However -- flaws aside, I do think the series is a step above other young adult vampire series out there. And, yes, I do believeBloodlineswill prove to be just as engaging (and sometimes infuriating) asVampire Academywas. I am a hopeless VA fan, so of course I'm already dying to know what will happen in the next series. All I can say for now: let the speculation begin!