The Story:It is a simple heart warming story of a rich girl whose fortunes play hide and seek with her. Initially she is very rich and enjoys everything as a princess and after some time we see her reduced to a pauper, having nothing and no body in the world. She works and struggles to support her life as a charity pupil. And then arrives the fairy tale ending in which the pauper is restored to unimaginable riches.What I understood from the Story/the Moral of the Story:1. The nature of life and its movement can never be understood. Life can treat you like a prince/princess this moment and in an instant it can drag you down to the dust, leaving you a pauper. What is asked of us is not to be proud of the riches or not to be grieving for the loss. Instead, we are asked to live the present with all the life that we have. Life itself is better gift than anything else. If you are sent to the attic, learn to enjoy the sunset and the friendships of sparrows and rats.2. Friends are the precious gems not to be missed in this life. Friends will hold you on in any moment and in every moment. They will be ready to face the risks just to meet you and share a joke with you. If loneliness is the most possible villain for life, the friends can play the part of villains for the loneliness.3. Believe in the healing power of imagination. Believe in it and believe in it always. Try to 'suppose' or 'imagine' the happiness in the moments of sadness. I have tried out such possibilities many times. I am not sure I will be able to imagine happiness in my extreme sadness, but this is the lesson from this book. It is, however, not a call to live in the hallucination. Work hard to support your life and in spite of that if you confront troubles and moments of difficulties, seek the soothing power of the imagination.4. Respect everyone in any state of life that you find yourself in. Do not change yourself according to the fortunes. Have respect for everyone and every living being (even for rats). Let not fortunes or emotions decide your behaviour.