Oh. my. dear. Shirley Temple deceived me!I'm not sure how I made it through my youth without having read this book. Surely with some big, gaping Little-Princess-sized hole. But it was through no fault of my own. I was deceived. By Shirley Temple. Or the director of the movie. Or whoever wrote the screenplay that seemed to leave out all of the goodness of the book and make Sara Crew seem like a goody two shoes mannequin.At least the error has been rectified; though the jury is still out on the damage done. It's probably irreparable.I know I would have read this many, many times. Read of Sara and her father's tender relationship. Poured over the many colorful and descriptive scenes of Sara in her attic room and it's wondrous transformation. Smiled at Sara's strong character and bravery, and stuck my tongue out at mean old Miss Minchin for being ever so cruel.Yes, I was deceived and cheated. So learn from the terrible victimization incurred upon my dear, sweet youth. Get the book and start reading it now, for it's a book that should be read several times in your life.Cleanliness:Children's Bad WordsMild Obscenities &amp; Substitutions - 1 Incident: stupid (used a few times)Name Calling - 3 Incidents: brat, cry baby, gooseReligious Profanity - 11 Incidents:Good God, goodness knows, oh goodness, oh laws (slang for Oh Lord), my word, God knowsReligious &amp; Supernatural - 4 Incidents: A paragraph on heaven where it is said that the deceased can perhaps see the children in the room and are perhaps in the room. Imagination is referred to as a kind of magic. A girl make-believes that her doll is a kind of "good witch" who protects her. There is a statue of Buddha and a conversation about having an idol though not worshipping it.Conversation Topics - 1 Incident: Wine is mentioned.For a full cleanliness report, which includes Violence, Romance and Parent Takeaway, visit my website. I have hundreds of other detailed reports too, and I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.