I got a tree on my back and a haint in my house, and nothing in between but the daughter I am holding in my arms. No more running - from nothing. I will never run from another thing on this earth. I took one journey and I paid for the ticket, but let me tell you something: it cost too much! Do you hear me? It cost too much.What's the difference between tragedy and melodrama? To me Sethe is one of the most tragic heroines in literature, but not everybody feels the same. The most peculiar critical comment I have come across after I finished reading the story of this runaway slave and her children claimed that Toni Morrison didn't take a necessary step back from her characters, that she was too passionate and too fierce about her subject, lacking in proper academic detachment and biased towards pointing out only the horrors of the institution of slavery. To me it seems like somebody is trying o demonstrate that the Holocaust wasn't all that bad, that there were reasons for the actions of the killers, that not all Germans were bad. I know I have come across in the past over portrayals of the coloured people in a paternalistic manner, arguing that the slave owners were doing them a favor by giving them shelter and food in exchange for work, liberating them from a savage life back in Africa and so on. Since the first generations of slaves were mostly illiterate (and insistently kept that way by their masters) there are very few direct accounts to challenge this self-serving theory.Eighteen seventy-four and whitefolks were still on the loose. Whole towns wiped clean of Negroes; eighty-seven lynchings in one year alone in Kentucky; four colored schools burned to the ground; grown men whipped like children; children whipped like adults; black women raped by the crew; property taken, necks broken.For Toni Morrison this is part of her personal history, and she makes herself the voice of this legion of ghosts whose stories some people would like to remain buried and forgotten. With her artistic sensibilities, she takes a real case of a woman pushed beyond the limits of endurance by the system (Margaret Garner) and makes it a poem of pain and redemption, of the awakening of individual conscience and of the sense of belonging to a community of the opressed.The terrain, slavery, was formidable and pathless. To invite readers (and myself) into the repellant landscape (hidden, but not completely; deliberately buried, but not forgotten) was to pitch a tent in a cemetery inhabited by highly vocal ghosts.The inspiration for the novel and the focus on the meaning of freedom, according to the introduction written by the author, has its source in the moment of release of the mind from the petty concerns of holding on to a job with limited satisfactions, of being for the first time sole master of her own life after she gave up an editing job to dedicate herself to full time writing.I think now it was the shock of liberation that drew my thoughts to what "free" could possibly mean to women. In the eighties, the debate was still roiling: equal pay, equal treatment, access to professions, schools ... and choice without stigma. To marry or not. To have children or not. Inevitably these thoughts led me to the different history of black women in this country - a history in which marriages were discouraged, impossible, or illegal; in which birthing children was requirred, but "having" them, being responsible for them - being, in other words, their parent - was as out of the question as freedom. Assertions of parenthood under conditions peculiar to the logic of institutional enslavement were criminal.Encapsulated in this passage in the core of Sethe's tragedy: born into slavery, denied the care of her own mother, sold to a "liberal" houselhold that was still part of the system, Sethe is tricked into believing she can have a normal life, that she can love another slave and have his children. When the farm changes ownership to a more severe patron, Sethe has to chose between running away or abandoning her children. Without going into details, her love for the children drives her to an abominable act, and for eighteen years she has to cope with the trauma and with the neighbors shunning. The ghosts of Sethe's past are manifest in the novel, given first an invisible, malefic presence in the house she lives in, and later given flesh and breath in the form of a mysterious young woman who calls herself 'Beloved'.The structure of the novel is non-linear, with the revelations about Sethe, about her children and the men in her life presented gradually, in painful flashbacks, reflecting the tortured mind that shies away and denies the painful memories, approaching them obliquely and fearfully, lest they shred her sanity once more. The question whether Beloved is a ghost or a real person is never settled, leaving the possibility that she is either a figment of the mother's imagination or another victim of the persecution and torture of the coloured people by the system. Seen as an exercise in magic realism, Sethe stands as a mythical figure in the liberation movement, together with her mother-in-law, another former slave who gained her freedom through the sacrifice of her son, Sethe's partner, the only one of her eight children that was allowed to stay by her side and work towards paying her manumission. Baby Suggs is a religious figure to the new community of escaped slaves on the banks of the Ohio, and for me she is special because she steps away from hate. Through her improvised sermons, urging her people to put down the sword and the shield of revenge and learn how to love themselves and the world they live in, Baby Suggs is probably the only character in the novel who really believes in the future.She told them that the only grace they could have is the grace they could imagine. That if they could not see it, they would not have it.Baby Suggs is a dreamer, drunk with the unexpected awareness of freedom, leading a wild dance of happiness in the midst of a forest clearing, but the world has this nasty habit of crushing visions of utopias of fellowship and understanding under a tide of greed, hatred, envy. The same events that set Sethe's blood boiling with helpless rage(view spoiler)[ killing her own children rather than allowing them to be returned to slavery(hide spoiler)], broke the belief of Baby Suggs in that better future.... in all of Baby's life, as well as Sethe's own, men and women were moved around like checkers. Anybody Baby Suggs knew, let alone loved, who hadn't run off or been hanged, got rented out, loaned out, bought up, brought back, stored up, mortgaged, won, stolen or seized. So Baby's eight children had six fathers. What she called the nastiness of life was the shock she received upon learning than nobody stopped playing checkers just because the pieces included her children.A powerful metaphor captures the tragic destiny of these two women, a play on colours and light and darkness on a quilt made from scraps, a reflection of a life put together from things other people have thrown out as useless, of a long series of defeats and disappointments that are interrupted by a feeble hope only once every twenty years or so:The walls of the room were slate-colored, the floor earth-brown, the wooden dresser the color of itself, curtains white, and the dominating feature, the quilt over an iron cot, was made up of scraps of blue serge, black, brown and gray wool - the full range of the dark and the muted that thrift and modesty allowed. In that sober field, two patches of orange looked wild - like life in the raw.Can a day of eating wild blackberies in the company of friends or another one spent with an unexpected kind man at a country fair compensate for the long years of drudgery and loss? What if this is all that Fate can offer you in a lifetime? Sethe can either accept it or go crazy:Was that the pattern? she wondered. Every eighteen or twenty years her unlivable life would be interrupted by a short lived glory?Well, if that's the way it was - that's the way it was.While doing a little more background reading on toni Morrisonr I have come upon another remarks of hers that I admire: when asked why she is focused so much on women issues she replied that she doesn't consider herself a feminist, that she doesn't want to replace patriarchy with a matriarchy, but only to promote understanding and respect between sexes. 'Beloved' is for me a fine example of this stance, with the men shown both in their strength and in their weaker moments, both as cruel dictators (the schoolteacher) and as angels of mercy (the abolitionist). Two of them, Stamp Paid and Paul D, are central to the story of Sethe and carry their own trees on their back and their own ghosts from the past to haunt their every waking moment. Victims of brutality, of denial of education, denial of family ties, of every decency and mercy that makes life worth living, these two men have refused to be broken and have gained passage to the land of freedom.Tell me something, Stamp. Tell me this one thing. How much is a nigger supposed to take? Tell me. How much?All he can, said Stamp Paid. All he can.Why? Why? Why? Why? Why?Sethe will need their strength and their kindness if she is to exorcise her own ghosts. The tension between man and woman is not one of dominance, of demonstrating who is stronger, but one of learning to accept the imperfections of the other and of admitting your own need of help in a time of crisis. The only sure thing for these people, at this moment of their history (the aftermath of the Secession War) is that the birth of conscience is accompanied by pain, that the price of freedom is paid in blood:'It's gonna hurt, now' said Amy. 'Anything dead coming back to life hurts.'I feel humbled after turning the last page, painfully aware of the sheltered life I have led and of the numerous things I took for granted - like growing up in my parents' house together with my brother and sister, going to school for free, not having to worry about food or safety at night, getting paid for the work I do... As long as women, and men, are still struggling in the third millenium with these essential freedoms of life, the story of Sethe and of her 'Beloved' remain relevant and remind us that it is not enough to do no evil, but we must speak out and push back against intolerance and abuse.BelovedYou are my sisterYou are my daughterYou are my face; you are me.