A reread. I read this the first time in April 1992, during my second trip to London (I've been there many times since, and do want to go again).NOTE: This book is the prequel to the Hobbit-LOTR books, and if you haven't yet read those two, the ending of this book has spoilers for both.The book (first parts being written down in 1917) is divided in five parts; the first two books deal with creation and prehistory, then comes the main part which deals with the quest to get the Silmarils, plus various stories about people and persons, often tragic. The fourth part tells the story of Numenorean people, and the fifth is post-Silmarils and into post Numenorean time, with things familiar to those who have watched/read the Hobbit/LOTR stuff, including the story of the rings and the coming of the wizards. Finally there are appendixes (incl. family trees, list of persons, and on language), and the map, which I had to mend a little since I tore it a little trying to open it the first time XDNow I just make some smaller comments:- Melkor (Morgoth): pride and impatience -&gt; shame and hatred -&gt; envy, power-seeking, hate, violence, fear etc. Corruptor of some maias which lead to the creation of balrog, and Sauron (which means that the fight in LOTR between(view spoiler)[Gandalf and the balrog was a fight between two maias! And the balrog was there because he had been hiding there since the First Age(hide spoiler)])- loved that the world was created with(view spoiler)[chains of songs(hide spoiler)].- Iluvatar is a God-like figure, the Valar are like creative angels (and Melkor then is the Devil figure)- loved the Beren-Luthien story (I imagined myself as Beren, that says something about me *lol*); Huan the dog was amazing *hearts*- the three Silmarils are actually a bit like the Ring: their power can be bad too- I'd like to compare the stories of Turin (like a figure from the Kalevala) and Tuor: one full of rage, the other full of hardship- Sauron being called Annatar, Lord of presents (the 'anna-' part is like the Finnish verb of 'give' + the end part is used up here as feminine ending)- how the elf-wizard council thinks about(view spoiler)[Sauron's coming at first seems a lot familiar when one thinks of the 1930s... at least I saw it like that. Saruman thinks he's smart because he studies but the studying slowly snares him - perhaps it was inevitable(hide spoiler)]!- I've always had a little fascination at the story of Numenoreans:(view spoiler)[ they are like Atlantis. First pride, then wanting more than their limits allow (to avoid death which they FEAR, to visit where they shouldn't), then letting Sauron in, then daring to sail, which destroys not just the ships... *shudders*(hide spoiler)]This is a story of worship and belief; also lack of, or in wrong directions. Predictions, curses, oaths, visions. Rise and fall of kingdoms, lives and deaths of various kind. Promises and alliances, kept and broken. Prejudice, possessiveness, pride, lies, secrets, lack of trust. Bravery, skills, buiding (places and ships), sharing things, loyalty, help in battle, elf-human love and friendship. This book has so much though normal thickness.I love it just as much as I did the first time, perhaps now finding things that I couldn't see then... a very enjoyable experience. There might not be a film for this, but I got nice mental visual out of it anyway. Worth reading, again and again.