Who Dared Seize Him?Ever since first reading this novel in school, I've assumed the word"Kafkaesque"described an aspect of society analogous to living under a totalitarian state.For much of this thoroughly enjoyable re-read, I persisted with this view.However, when Joseph K. is arrested with no apparent justification, he is more surprised than an inhabitant of a fascist state. He asks:"Who could these men be? What were they talking about? What authority could they represent? K. lived in a country with a legal constitution, there was universal peace, all the laws were in force; who dared seize him in his own dwelling?"You'd think that, with all the hallmarks of a modern civilisation in place, you'd be free from the risk of arbitrary arrest.A natural reaction is that it might be a joke. However, it's not funny for very long, certainly not for the twelve month process K. must endure.Officials on HighApart from the apparent absence of a reason for K.'s arrest, the atmosphere isn't as oppressive as I recalled. It's inexplicable for K., yet somehow routine and unremarkable for everybody else. It doesn't evoke an outcry (except, understandably, from K.). It's as if this turn of events is uncommon, but it could still happen to any of us at any time. Not because we live in a totalitarian state, but because we might have committed a crime. But what if K. doesn't believe he has actually done anything wrong?K. isn't incarcerated pending trial. For all the empty formality of the Law, everybody he deals with is meticulous in their observance of etiquette. They're amiable, courteous, helpful and apologetic, not to mention sometimes obsequious and solicitous. Whoever is wielding this power, exercising this authority, is wearing velvet gloves:"I don't in the least blame them, it is the organisation that is to blame, the high officials who are to blame."Only he can't find any trace of these high officials. He only ever seems to encounter lowly officials. Still, power is exercised and punishment occurs at this level. One official says, with a hint of the banal:"I am here to whip people, and whip them I shall."The Danger of IndifferenceAll the power that is exercised against K. makes him wonder whether (like Mersault would later do in Albert Camus'"The Stranger")he should remain indifferent to his plight.However, here, K.'s uncle warns him that he will have no chance of proving his innocence if he is submissive. He suggests that he flee the city and come to the country:"I only made the suggestion because I thought your indifference would endanger the case..."A Free Man in ChainsJoseph K.'s only crime seems to be that he is a free man, going about his own business. He is a risk assessor in a bank, presumably someone educated, an intellectual of sorts, a free thinker.Early on, he says,"A man can't help being rebellious."Eventually, he reflects that"it's often safer to be in chains than to be free."My ConfessionAfter a while, I started to deliberate whether the novel was about authority and authoritarianism at a more generic level than the State.So, what is it that places chains on mankind? The Courts just serve the Law. Is the Law wholly rational, or does it serve some other authority? Whose justice does it dispense?"The Court is quite impervious to proof...You must remember that in these Courts things are always coming up for discussion that are simply beyond reason, people are too tired and distracted to think, and so they take refuge in superstition."In the CathedralBit by bit, as the novel progressed, I questioned whether Kafka's real target was the authority that religion has over our lives.The penultimate chapter occurs in the Cathedral. Some of Kafka's language sounds almost biblical:"The Court makes no claims upon you. It receives you when you come and it relinquishes you when you go...You see, everything belongs to the Court."Yet what got me speculating most was sentences like this:"Whatever he may seem to us, he is yet a servant of the Law; that is, he belongs to the Law and as such is set beyond human judgement."It mightn't have been possible in the original German, but if you substitute"the Lord"for"the Law"(or"the Court")in these sentences, the result suggests that the greatest claim to authority is that of religion (even when it often claims to be above the Law).Is God the unseen higher source of authority and the Church the organisation behind K.'s arrest? Was it God's churchwardens who dared to seize him?Is life an ongoing trial under God's Law?Original SinIf this speculation has any legs, then"The Trial"might be concerned with the concept of original sin.Is original sin a crime with which each of us has been charged without our knowledge, without any proof and without any guilt?"In the end, out of nothing at all, an enormous fabric of guilt will be conjured up."Free WillBy extension, if the idea of original sin derives from God, are we deluded in clinging to the concept of free will, when God sits above us all, exercising ultimate control, pre-disposing us to sin?If so, the Trial might be a metaphor for the supernatural process of God looking over and judging us every moment of our lives, until we are granted permission to enter Heaven.Ultimately, K.'s only crime seems to be the individualistic pride that makes him cling to free will and prevents him submitting to God's will and law. But in the eyes of the Lord/the Law, it is the greatest crime there is.(view spoiler)[God Works Through Trials"2 My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into various trials,3 Knowing that the testing of your faith produces patience."James 1:2-3"Thank You Lord (For the Trials That Come My Way)"https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pQztF...A.K.A. The Barrister's Song(hide spoiler)]The Throng of GossipI've always thought of this novel as a five star achievement. Re-reading it, I've realised that what convinced me of its status was probably the power of Kafka's vision and ideas.What struck me this time was the quality of the writing.For all the claustrophobic abstraction, Kafka grounds the novel in evocative and descriptive prose. There's even a bit of humour:"Down the whole length of the street at regular intervals, below the level of the pavement, were planted little general grocery shops, to which short flights of steps led down. Women were thronging into and out of these shops or gossiping on the steps outside. A fruit hawker who was crying his wares to the people in the windows above, progressing almost as inattentively as K. himself, almost knocked K. down with his push-cart. A phonograph which had seen long service in a better quarter of the town began stridently to murder a tune."