4.5 starsI would imagine that most people are familiar with The Crucible, but for those that are not, The Crucible is a play Arthur Miller wrote about the Salem Witch Trials. Miller wrote this in the early 1950s as a response to the dangers that Joseph McCarthy's actions toward declaring that people were "Communists" and how this is a case of history repeating itself a little more than 250 years later. In the late 1690s, young girls were making accusations toward who they believed were witches that resulted in the hanging of nineteen people and the pressing of one. Back in that day, witchcraft was viewed as "business with the devil."The issues that is timeless, whether it be during the Salem Witch Trials, McCarthyism, or anywhere beyond that point is the fact that everyone would have it in them to serve out what they feel to be God's will, whether they be reverends that see themselves as a religious authority, judges that see themselves as a legal authority, or young girls that feel they are making something of themselves by doing what they feel is God's duty. This play brought out a lot of responses, from anger to enlightenment. I felt greatly sympathetic toward John Proctor, who was a flawed man, but one that wanted to live and let live and anger toward multiple characters, but especially Abigail, the leader among the girls, in how she manipulated and blackmailed everyone she came across.Arthur Miller gave life to each of the characters (who were or were based on real people) in this play to the point that you are bound to feel something toward each of them and either care, cringe, or get that feeling you want to punch them in the face. It certainly made its mark in that respect. While there were things that were intentionally altered, such as the girls being made a bit older in order to make John Proctor's affair with Abigail look a bit more logical, I still feel that this novel made a legitimate point in what it was attempting to get at.I read The Crucible back in high school and committed an entire unit to it. I remember watching the 1996 film adaptation with Daniel Day Lewis as John Proctor, Winona Ryder as Abigail Williams, and Paul Scofield as Deputy Governor Thomas Danforth (who I felt was the standout role in the film). We also had to create a comic book based on The Crucible, which was fun. I felt that now was the time for a revisit.Here is a discussion I had about The Crucible on Literary Gladiators (though it does contain spoilers):https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6I7F7...