The man-to-pig metamorphosis is wellknown since Odysseus met Circe, but the opposite transformation works equally well. Probably more equally well than the other way round, considering the privileged equality of pigs.One could almost get the notion that pigs and men are interchangeable, and somehow it is hard to know beforehand which species would be more (equally) offended by the comparison.I reread Animal Farm today for professional reasons, and I was surprised how much I still appreciate it after several decades. In a way, I could argue that it gains truth each year in the same way1984moves into the realm of reality from a darkly funny dystopia. But then again, we all know that truth isn't truth, so I must be mistaken on that. If memory clashes with modified truth, it is memory that must be faulty.Animal Farm is of course a satire describing a very specific era in history, the corruption of the communist revolution under Stalin. But that strikes me as less important than the fact that Orwell created archetypes of human behaviour that manage to transcend the original setting and cross the border of time and space to move into our contemporary pigly power play.Who doesn't find an equivalent of a vindictive Napoleaon urinating on the brilliant plans of a rival, only to steal them afterwards?Who doesn't recognise the type of narcissistic "leader" who offers himself all available honours while crying "Snowball" whenever something goes wrong?Who doesn't know the herd of sheep who are barely capable of reproducing the most simple slogans, but still dominate each meeting with their loud and braindead bleating?Who doesn't know the hardworking, honest horse who refuses to let disappointment break him down until his life is completely spent under the yoke?Who doesn't know one of those cynical donkeys who see the world for the depraved place it has always been and will always stay?We're all there, in the Animal Farm, and we share Muriel's confusion when she reads the commandments which seemingly prove that her memory is wrong. All animals are equal, but some are more equal than others. Brutal truth in a world that has discovered the most powerful sword there is to guide humanity (aka piggity): the written word. If you control the word, you control the world. That is the true teaching of Animalism. Pigism and sheepism are just variations on the general theme.The one thing that made me laugh out loud in sheer pleasure was the attempt to form a re-education committee for the wild creatures. You can't tame rats and rabbits! Why is that such a good thought? There won't be any rabbitism or ratism, just rabbits and rats doing what their wild nature leads them to do.I'm with them, for sure!