If you have not read the book, it is the true account of a Dutch woman in her 50s who sets up an underground Jewish haven during the Nazi rule over Holland. I love reading about the Holocaust, but this was the first time I could sense such a chasm between a sweet, elderly, epitome-of-Christian woman and the cruel hatred of the Nazi camps.Even before the war, the family's charity and service was inspiring. During the war, their optimism, stalwartness, and charity was amazing. Corrie would trust her instincts as being directed by God, and sure enough they were protected from harm around every corner. When they were finally discovered, her amazing sister not only was filled with nothing but sympathy for the Nazis' hatred, but looked at every evil as opportunity: the more crammed the camp became the more women they had to teach the gospel, the dirtier the conditions the less intrusion from the guards, etc. I like to think I am optimistic, but I have my breaking point and then I'm irritable. The true test of our character comes under stressful times and their willingness to search for service in the trenches of hatred was heart warming.I have often wondered if I would risk my family's life to protect another, but I have never questioned whether or not I would lie. I would have lied to the Nazis and had no moral regrets about it. Connie's sister-in-law was so dedicated to honesty she told her children they would be rewarded for their honesty. And sure enough, when they told Nazi enquirers dangerous information, they were always protected. That made me question my own commitment to honesty.The family experienced their share of sadness and loss, but even after the war, Connie opened her heart and home to those displaced by the war, including the Nazis. I am not a crier and yet as I reached the close of this book, I found my eyes watering, not out of sorrow, but out of sheer awe at the hand of God in their lives and the power of love in their hearts. That sounds so cheesy, but what an uplifting read.