It would be fair to say that the most famous story of the Holocaust is the story ofAnne Frank. Yet, in many ways, we are taught the incomplete story of the Frank family and thier hiding mates. While we know in great detail about the risk that the Frank helpers took by hiding and protecting their friends, the helpers seem to get short shift. While everyone knows of Miep, not that she seemed to have wanted it, many forget that Victor Kugler (Mr. Kraler in the diary) and Johannes Kleiman (Mr. Koophuis) were imprisoned for aiding the Franks. Mr. Kleiman was released after about six weeks, and Mr. Kugler was transfered a few times, actually escaped and went into hiding. While neither was at a conceration camp, Nazi prison camps were not nice places, and Mr. Kraler was actually housed with prisioners who had been given the death sentence. The risk and scarifcie that helpers and rescusers took to help thier friends or complete strangers should be remembered regardless of the age, sex, or beauty of said helper. This is difficult because it seems that many people, regardless of the country France, the Netherlands, Germany, helped because it was the right thing to do, and do not want to be overertly singled out. The stories, however, are important and should be known. Anne Frank should be taught in such away that students know the before and after as well as the diary, that they know the truth about the denist, for instance.The Hiding Placeis about another Dutch family during the Holocaust. Unlike most stores set in wartime Netherlands, regardless of being fact or fiction, it takes place in the town of Haarleem. I've been there. It was a very cold and wet day. I want to go back so I can see Corrie's house, the Beje. The fact that the story takes place outside of Amsterdam or Rotterdam (which was violently bombed by the Germans) is good because not only does it present the rescuers but another city's experience as well.The ten Boom family at the time of WW II consisted of Corrie, her two older sisters (Betsie and Nollie), her older brother Willim, her father Casper and the various child of Nollie and Wilhelm. While the reader gets an idea of what the ten Boom family was like prior to the outbreak of WW II (there is a particularlly chilling story about a worker from Germany), the book of the bulk concerns thier experience, in particular Corrie who was interviewed, during the war. Corrie and her father were clock and watch repairers, Betsie took care of thier house, Nollie and her husband were teachers, and Willim was a preacher in the Dutch Reformed Church then later he ran, with his wife Tine (a nurse) a nursing home. As a whole, the family was deeply religious.The whole family was also involed with the Dutch resistance, passing messages, obtaining food coupons, and hiding people. Corrie, Betsie, and her father seemed to have almost stumbled into it, for a lack of a better word. They did it because helping people was the right thing to do.And they paid for it. Eventually the whole family was arrested, some members were arrested twice, and Corrie and her sister Betsie were the last to be released. The second part of the book is focused on Corrie's experiences during her imprisonment, including her struggle with faith, which seems to be a selling point for this book. Actually, it is a bit refreshing because Corrie is by no means a saintly Christian and she doesn't try to make herself one.Part chroncile of war time experience, part struggle with faith, this book is worth reading.