*An ARC was provided by HarperTeen in exchange for an honest review*I don't usually go for books like this one, with the whole princess competition thing going on (actually I've never even started one because they don't look good), but let me tell you, this book is amazing.I loved it. That's all I can say. It went right into the story, and I was hooked from page one. I just couldn't stop reading. The plot was AMAZING!! I loved how Kiera Cass manipulated the characters (Aspen) to make America sign up, and then dropped him, but still kept him around. Does that make any sense to you? I probably didn't explain that right, but I did my best. :DAbout half-way through the book I stopped and looked at all the pages I had left to read and there were still like twenty girls left and I was like HOW IS SOMEONE GOING TO WIN WHEN THERE'S ONLY FIFTY PAGES LEFT? Well, when I finished, my question was answered: None did. Kiera Cass decided to put me through the torture of the biggest cliffhanger ever and not tell me who won. HOW COULD YOU DO THAT TO ME?!?!From page one America was in an interesting situation, what with getting Selected and having Aspen as a boyfriend. This book wouldn't have been anywhere near as good as it is if it didn't have the love triangle. I usually don't like books with it in them, but it totally worked for this one.I love Maxon. He is totally misunderstood. He isn't stiff, aloof, mean. He's actually really sweet and CUTE.The other side of the triangle is Aspen. I don't like him. The little slime-ball dumped America because she gave him some food then had the gal to come crying back to her. I hope she ends up with Maxon.And, last but not least, I really liked America. The whole theme with her in the Selection was that she wanted to be herself, not someone fake, and I really like that. She's a very strong character and speaks her mind. Sort of like me. :PAll in all, I BETTER GET THE SECOND BOOK ASAP OR I WILL EXPLODE!! DO YOU FEEL MY PAIN, KIERA???Before I sign off I have to give a huge thanks to Kiera Cass (for answering all my messages and passing on my request for an ARC) and to HarperTeen for sending me a copy. THANKS!!!!!!~Emily @Emily's Crammed Bookshelf