This is one of the books you take notes while reading. C.S.Lewis is, as I so many times before said, the smartest Christian writer I ever came across to and underlining passages is worthless. You just have to re-read it all, if anything.This book is writen for already convinced Christians (if not, it may open eyes upon some confusing aspects of Christian religion-did it for me, anyway) and it lingers upon matters of a Christian life and temptations that come with it. However, they're not looked at with the simplicity of the book's modern version,Lord Foulgrin's Letters. Lewis goes in the depths of it and points out the traps one can fall in walking on the path chosen. And they are subtle and many. The mistakes are accurately described; it is given the way out of them - all through the tempter Screwtape.In fact, this is where you can see the difference between the master and the apprentice: while Alcorn points out the obvious sins -adultery, anger, lies, attitude towards family, boredom, wanting more and more etc- Lewis underlines how the thoughts, intentions, day-by-day and social habits are the real problem. It's actually disturbing if you identify yourself in the depiction of the foolish person doing that.Following the comparison line, The Screwtape Letters are a source of theology more than an imagined situation between two devils and this lessens the credibility sometimes. The wisdom the devil has in Christian matters reversely applied is an excellent guide; but sometimes it gets too instructive, for the reader, to be real. On the other hand, The Lord Foulgrin's Letters gives the reader a frightful feeling and sounds more like a discussion between two evil beings, but has a lot less intelligent thinking. Both books challenge you to look outside the physical world; if not seeing, but realizing the existance of a spiritual world. The latter may sometimes go over the edge and extent the importance of a tempter's ability too much; the first begins with saying 'The devil does not like to be laugh at' * and the author cautions about the two opposite attitudes (both wrong) that one can take towards the dark spirits: giving them too much attention or ignoring their world (Screwtape himself admits in a letter how disturbing are the people that josh them).Also, what I like about Lewis and will always make him win every attempt at comparison is how he blends culture and Christianship. He stated Christian people should be the most intelligent category of people: that isn't much of an impulse to separate and keep away from History, Literature and Arts because they don't rise to that "holier-than-thou" level of spirituality. A sentimental manifestation lies in wait if choose to believe so; it may be of course avoided, but it's so around the corner under these conditions.*"The best way to drive out the devil, if he will not yield to texts of Scripture, is to jeer and flout him, for he cannot bear scorn." (Martin Luther)"The devil... the prowde spirite... cannot endure to be mocked." (Thomas More)~~ [de ce ma intind atata cu scrisul?e patologic deja :))]