This book has probably one of the easiest premises around to understand: The senior devil, Screwtape, writes advise to a junior devil, his nephew, Wormwood. The letters are his advice to Wormwood how to prevent a human from reaching his full Christian capabilities, and to turn the human to their "side", as it were. Screwtape is one of the best villains in literature, and the epistolary format of this book helps to see the world through the demon's eyes.Apparently C.S. Lewis had a hard time writing this book, and after a brief sequel or continuation later, he was not able to return to the whole Screwtape thing because it "hurt" him too much to write from the point of view of the devil. For someone like myself who is in no way religious, I'm more fascinated by that than anything else. He certainly did not write this book in order to garner sympathy for Screwtape, and it's meant to be satirical anyhow, so I'm not sure I understand his reasoning. Still, it's a good book, religious or not.In fact, reading some of the reviews of it here I find that to be a true Christian this is the book that must be read. A lot of people go on about how this book helped them see more clearly how the devil can lead one astray, and how there are such negative forces preventing good people from being fully happy. The part which trips me up about the whole thing and makes me snicker as I read some of these reviews is that this book is comprised of letters from a devil to another devil. It's the devil's advice. It even says in the Preface: "Readers are advised to remember that the devil is a liar. Not everything that Screwtape says should be assumed to be true even from his own angle." The devil lies, so... his words shouldn't be taken as truth, so...Maybe it's just late and my mind is playing tricks on me. The end result is this is a great little book, and a quick read. Clearly non-Christians can benefit from reading this just as much as a Christian can, so don't let the reviews throw you. It's a satire and should be read as such, and like I always say, just enjoy the read.Then again, I felt the same way about the Narnia books too. They were just a fun read and I don't carewhoAslan was supposed to represent.