My daughters have watched the Disney movie Ella Enchanted many times and loved it immensely. They are enamored by the Disney princess genre, even princesses who do not fit nicely into the company's traditional definition of princess. Until last week, I had never viewed the film with them, being that I hardly fit the definition of girly girl myself, often opting for whatever sporting event is in season. I enjoyed the concept of a medieval Cinderella who is not necessarily forced to do back breaking work for an evil stepmother but to be obedient to her and whoever else orders her around. Seeing the film version, lead me to this Newberry award winning book by Gail Carson Levine.At birth, Ella of Prell is gifted by the fairy Lucinda to always be obedient at all costs. Growing up, she once had to eat an entire birthday cake, nearly relinquish a toddler gnome to an ogre, and lose more friends than she ever made, only because someone had ordered her to do so. Unable to tell anyone of her curse, Ella appears deceptive to the world, often times leading her to lead a solitary life.As in the traditional Cinderella story, Ella's mother dies when she is fifteen years old. At her mother's funeral, she stays out of sight in case someone orders her to do something and she is too sad to be obedient. At this trying time in her life, she meets Prince Char of Kyrria for the first time, and he is instantly smitten with her, leading to a lengthy quest of his over the course of the book to win her hand in marriage. Although not instantly enamored, Ella over time realizes what her curse could do to Char and his kingdom, and seeks out Lucinda to take back this curse once and for all.Unlike the movie, there is no shopping mall, protest, soundtrack, or evil uncle and his pet snake waiting to take over the kingdom. In Levine's original version we do meet Areida of Ayortha, Mandy the fairy godmother, and Dame Olga and her atrocious daughters Hattie and Olive. In addition to them, we meet a traditional medieval cast of elves, gnomes, ogres, and giants. All these people and other beings play a role in Ella's curse, making for a memorable book for middle grade readers.As a mother of girls, I enjoyed that the Ella in the book is a heroine for all beings regardless of their place in society. She is assertive and is not subservient to her prince as the traditional Disney Cinderella is. In this modern retelling, Ella alone seeks out to reverse the curse cast upon her by Lucinda, making her a strong heroine character for girls. The movie was fun yet Disneyfied, but Gail Carson Levine's book version of Ella Enchanted is a fun, strong read and worthy of its Newberry, rating a solid 4 stars.