WrensReads Review:This book is so hard for me to review because I love every single thing about it, but hate every single thing aboutthat bloody movie.Like seriously, who decided to only use the names and the curse and rewrite everything else for the movie? Why did we need a talking snake and an evil uncle and a fan group for the prince? Wasn't evil Hattie enough?SERIOUSLY THIS STORY IS ABSOLUTELY PRECIOUS AND PERFECT AND THE MOVIE RUINED IT, I CAN NOT STRESS THAT ENOUGH FOR YOUThere is no need for a fan club for the prince. There is no need for an evil uncle trying to take the throne or a big giant talking snake that literally has no purpose but to make you feel like you are watching a live action version of Disney's Robin Hood.It's even the little things. Like Mandy. She is suppose to be a ruffed-up old lady with crazy white hair and basically Ella's mother. Does this girl look like that?NO.Or that the stepmother and stepsisters are suppose to be fat.But really, I'm upset about the ogres.So in the perfect-little book, Ella has a knack for languages. Each creature has their own language and she knows bits and pieces of them from the talking birds at the market. Well the ogres have a knack for languages too, but when they speak (in whatever language they want to) you believe anything they say. You will do whatever they want you to do, because they are your best friend and they don't REALLY want to eat you.I thought the scene in the book with the ogres, which I am not going to spoil, wasabsolutely fascinating. AND THE MOVIE DIDN'T EVEN -- UGH.At least the prince was cute, right? That's a second thing they got right.The first being the Ella has the curse to obey every command ever pointed at her.Dig in, Ella. Run around, Ella. Cut off your head, Ella. Don't be friends with them, Ella. Be happy, Ella. Only speak in riddles, Ella. Hold your breath, Ella.That is absolutely nightmarish.Just take my word for it: If you ever are channel surfing and you see thisRun outside, grab that gasoline you save for when your lawnmower is low, throw it on your TV and light a match. It is absolutely insulting to this little gem.I love all the retellings that Gail Carson Levine does, and that movie does NO JUSTICE.I know I didn't really tell you anything about the book except that I liked it. But what else do you need to know besides it is a retelling of Cinderella and the "Cinderella" of the book has a curse to obey all commands ever? Isn't that interesting in itself? It's short and sweet, go read it.Goodreads|Twitter|Instagram