It's a sweet, humorous book, written for a younger audience but easily enjoyed by an older one too. Based on the Cinderella story, there are a few notable differences, namely that Ella was "blessed" with the "gift" of obedience by the fairy Lucinda, who thinks all her gifts (such as turning you into a squirrel) are wonderful. Ella is the daughter of Lady Eleanor and a somewhat unscrupulous merchant, Sir Peter, whom she rarely sees. She grows up with her mother, who teaches her to slide down the banister, and the cook Mandy, who's not all she seems. She learns fairly early what a curse the gift is, where any command must be obeyed. The opportunities for being taken advantage of are mind-boggling (but strictly G-rated). Ella learns to be defiant even while she is forced to obey, but the trick doesn't always work.When, at fifteen, her mother dies several things happen. Firstly, she meets Prince Char and forms a friendship with him, and secondly her father decides to send her to finishing school along with the two hideous daughters of Dame Olga, who has her sights set on Sir Peter. The daughters, Hattie and Olive, are greedy, rude and obnoxious, but things become worse when Hattie realises Ella must obey her.Ella is desperate to find Lucinda and have her remove the curse, which leads her to run away from the finishing school and into all sorts of trouble. Unlike a lot of fantasy stories, though, this one isn't a quest story set on an endless road. Ella meets Elves and is nearly eaten by Ogres, but spends most of the story at home. Humorous escapades and a blooming friendship between her and Char balance out the cruelty dealt her by others. And the Cinderella aspect is given full due, but in a refreshing way. The similarities are there, but it never feels old and tired and same-y.Also, Ella herself is a great heroine, smart and strong but not over-confident or perfect. She's a bit clumsy but has the gift of imitating languages and voices, and learning languages quickly. She's no defenceless damsel and she doesn't whinge, but her curse curtails who she really is. The moral of the story is fitting, but not lecturing. Levine has a much lighter hand than your average Disney movie, and there's not a saccharine moment. It reminds me a bit of the movieEver After, so if you liked that then you'll like this book, and vice versa.A joy to read, and very well written,Ella Enchantedtook up a few hours of my time but will take up a much larger slice of my memory: for making me laugh at the end of an exhausting week, for being sweet but not cloying, wise but not preachy, and for revitalising an old fairytale.