So before long, you find yourself 340 pages into this book, and you have no idea what's happening.. Rather, you understand all you have read to this point, but still can't determine the direction Murakami is taking you in.Still, the book is compelling. You can't seem to put it down. Meanwhile it begins to invade your dreams.. in much the same manner that Toru's (the main character) dreams are invaded. You start having dreams about strange women and empty wells.So cracking into "Book Three", I'm still uncertain of what will happen next, or if there is even a point to this work. Having reviews that state "dream-like" and "surreal", I wonder if anything will come of it. I know what I would like to happen, but Murakami tends to avoid my expectations.So I'll read on.. and maybe in a day or two, I'll have closure.9/18 Update:No closure.Expectations avoided, though I was working on satisfying conclusions all throughout Book 3, just not of the kind Murakami Intended.And after reading multiple goodreader reviews, I have a sense that no one is getting it or writing it off as merely strange and surreal. Don't believe for a second that Ido"get it", but by saying Murakami leaves a lot of "loose ends" is a cop out to me, and I think with critical care and attention, a lot of these can be tied up..But what do I know? It's not my place to tie up loose ends.Something stewing in me right now, and I put the finished book down only moments ago, is that I can't believe for a second that May is a wigmaker. I think maybe she's crazy, maybe in a mental facility which she believes is a wig making factory, and.. and... maybeKumiko.Still stewing inside, yet, is a hypothesis that all of, or most of, the women in this book are variations of Kumiko. That the "real" Kumiko never really left Toru, etc., etc.But this is what a book like this can do to a person. Invite your own interpretation, as I suspect may be what Murakami intended.Also, I'm likening this to a song that you really love to hear, but probably don't know what it's about... and once you catch the meaning, it doesn't belong to you anymore. Further losing that specialness because the artist spilled the beans, as it were. And for that I'll take the book as it came to me and left me.