Dec 2013: Rereading with my 2 oldest kids after seeing "Desolation of Smaug" (they wanted to read it, the 2nd hasn't read beyond "Hobbit" yet, and I wanted to check my memory since I didn't remember things the same way the directors of the movie seemed to ;) Also gave a challenge to them, as in, "I'll read these with you if you'll read through DICKENS with me, ha ha ha ha"...diabolical but they both accepted...we'll see how it goes. How about it you two??)Enjoyed "The Hobbit" tremendously again. It's amazing, stories, that is. Again and again and again some of them can go round and still delight and enchant.I appreciated the little beauties in the writing this time, things like "like a patch of midnight that had never been cleared up." And little thoughts like:"Going on from there was the bravest thing he ever did. The tremendous things that happened afterward were as nothing compared to it. He fought the real battle in the tunnel alone, before he ever saw the vast danger that lay in wait."And "Surely you don't disbelieve the prophecies, because you had a hand in bringing them about yourself? You don't really suppose, do you, that all your adventures, and escapes were managed by mere luck, just for your sole benefit?"On to "Fellowship."I love these words from Tolkien's introduction: "Some who have read the book, or at any rate have reviewed it, have found it boring, absurd, or contemptible, and I have no cause to complain, since I have similar opinions of their works, or of the kinds of writing that they evidently prefer." Guffaw. Well said.---(The following review was from my last reading, Jan 2009)Tolkien did not like religious allegory, (reportedly including his good friend C.S. Lewis's Narnia series) and says in the introduction to "The Fellowship of the Ring:" "I think that many confuse 'applicability' with 'allegory'; but the one resides in the freedom of the reader, and the other to the purposed domination of the author."Two of my bookgroup friends chose to co-host these books, with an effort to find the "applicability." How fun!I have read and absolutely relished these books a number of times, but haven't really put any effort behind understanding rather than just enjoyment. Because I'm a nerd, I found about 20 articles on religious themes, symbolism, applicability etc. by various people on the internet and read those with the books. To say there is more to these books than I previously imagined is a bit of an understatement.Studying up a bit on other people's theories on Tolkien's writings was fun, but even more was what could be discerned about Tolkien himself from his letters and writings to friends about his books. I love getting to know an author that way and being able to see little bits of their personality come out in their works (like the fact that Tolkien loved smoking a pipe--does all the pipe smoking in the book make more sense now?)Tolkien was a man very faithful to his religion and his God. I loved picking out the manifestations in that. Although LoftR is a "pagan" story (no religion) it is filled with Christian themes of mercy, free will, divine mission, and hope, individual worth, and salvation.Our brands of Christianity differ a bit, Tolkien's and mine, and I also found it a good study to see the sameness and differences. Tolkien wrote to a friend once that he saw history as one long disaster and it seemed to me that his faith was more dominated by the idea--you know, "life is pain, highness,--anyone who says differently is selling something." Perhaps that comes from the belief in original sin?At any rate, I come from a background in which I have come to believe that "man is that he might have joy." Pain and suffering are inevitable, but can successfully exist side by side with hope, joy, and even earthly happiness. We aren't called upon to endure anything we can't handle--with God's help. Frodo's end is a bit sad in that light, I believe we can fulfill our missions and yet still enjoy the fruits.Anyway, some poet wrote that we are more the same than different, but let's still enjoy our differences. Pure truth.I'll sign off with a couple of quotations from the articles I read about how Tolkien came to write these books in case anyone has been ever too turned off from either the movies or the genre to want to read the books.---"Professor J. R. R. Tolkien was grading papers on a summer day in 1928 when he came upon a blank page in an exam book. Something inspired him to scribble a few words: 'In a hole in the ground there lived a hobbit.' The whole thing might have ended there, but it was only a beginning. 'Names always generate a story in my mind,' he explained later. 'Eventually I thought I'd better find out what hobbits were like.'" From "The Truth Beyond Memory, What lies behind the Fellowship" By John J. Miller--"When The Lord of the Rings first appeared in the 1950s, one of Tolkien's greatest disappointments was that Christian periodicals ignored it. He feared they missed the point that the 500,000-word story was to its very core Catholic. To a Jesuit friend he wrote: 'The Lord of the Rings is of course a fundamentally religious and Catholic work; unconsciously at first, but consciously in the revision.' When Tolkien began writing it in 1937, he merely wanted it to be a sequel to his clever children's story, The Hobbit. God shocked him, as he later believed, when a dark figure, one of the nine Ringwraiths, suddenly appeared in the story. Tolkien was as surprised at the arrival of a servant of the devil as were his fictional, frightened Hobbits. While meditating on this unexpected arrival, Tolkien seems to have focused upon the Lord's Prayer. 'I think rather of the mysterious last petitions of the Lord's Prayer: Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil,' Tolkien wrote in 1956. 'A petition against something that cannot happen is unmeaning. There exists the possibility of being placed in position beyond one's power. In which case (as I believe) salvation from ruin will depend on something apparently unconnected: the general sanctity (and humility and mercy) of the sacrificial person.' Tolkien firmly believed that his characters had existed long before he had, that God had given him the story. He believed he merely recorded it. Ultimately, Tolkien claimed, God was the true author of the Silmarillion andThe Lord of the Rings." From "NOT A HIPPIE CULT FIGURE: The Christian Gifts of J.R.R. Tolkien" by Bradley J. Birzer