I was introduced to The Lord of the Rings as the sequel to The Hobbit. I knew going into reading there wasn't going to be a lot of Bilbo, but that didn't stop me from reading ahead occasionally to see when his name would pop up next.Reading The Lord of the Rings was a really different experience from The Hobbit not only because it's got a more epic scope and deals with more POV characters, but also because I felt like it introduced me to "Mr Tolkien". Tolkien in The Hobbit is writing for an a particular audience (children and families), so he's catering his narrative delivery so hopefully it will resonate with those types of people. In The Lord of the Rings, I felt like the narrative was much less restrained in that way. The Lord of The Rings is much more pure expression of Mr Tolkien's personality and how he sees the world.Some of his perceptions were really surprising to me. I'm a modern day person and I use a computer and a car on a daily basis and, you know, it's easy to just take it for granted that that's the way the world works. Tolkien, though, is kind of a naturalist: his focus is on stuff like landscapes and plants, and on peoplebeinga part of it all. It's a totally different perspective on life than I would normally think of, and it was a treasure to be introduced to it.(view spoiler)[ How do my machines serve me? Or do I serve my machines? Am I using them to live a fuller, more human, life and in accordance with the laws of nature?(hide spoiler)]There's also this really funny thing he does whenever Aragorn shows up (this is particularly prominent in the first book): Mr Tolkien will drop whatever other narrative weave he's working on and enter fanboy mode and remind us how frikkin' awesome Strider/Aragorn is!It became a laughing point for me on my first reading; like, obviously"This guy [the writer] wants me to like Aragorn, but you know....I kinda like Boromir better!"(I was not surprised at all with Boromir's ending, it was actually kind of funny and sad at the same time.)I also think it's interesting, that he's equally good at writing these big epic-scope sequences as he as at writing really quiet ones. One of the scenes I remember most vividly is when the whole Fellowship is just walking along a road somewhere, and he describes how the footfalls of each race of character sound differently. He just creates these moments and moods, you feel like you could just stay in them forever.Notes:I was in the second half of The Two Towers when I found out there were going to be movies about the series. We went to costco one time and they had a trilogy boxed set (along with The Hobbit). that was my first exposure to the movie and merchandise;(And of course Aragorn's there, right on the front cover, because we KNOW how much MR TOLKIEN LUUURVES him some Aragorn!)I remember being so surprised,that they made the character who was clearly meant to be Frodo so good looking, and then reading the bit where Sam and Faramir are talking and mention that Frodo kind of looks like an elf. (Like, Mr Tolkien didn't think that this was important enough to mention earlier?! COMON!)Also, I hadn't thought of elves as particularly effimate. The hobbit's just focus on how tall they are, and I guess I equated "Tall" with having a larger, more bulky skeletal structure. When you think about it, though, most of the POV characters are really, really short. Everyone is ginormous compared to them. And Mr Tolkien is just as likely to describe the elves as "fair" as he is to describe their height. Most of the time, I just thought he meant "light colored" but it makes sense with all the different races of elves, not all of them have to even be white.