The Green Mile ...a nickname acquired because of the color on the floor in the Cold Mountain Penitentiary's ( somewhere in the American South), E Block , death row under a different alias, during the gloomy year of 1932, the inmates taking the long, long walk their last, to see Old Sparky, the electric chair that will end the lives of these miserable convicted killers ...Nevertheless , the unique green surface is the last thing the nervous residents are thinking about , in their humble cells, peering through the bars... besides it isn't a distant mile, much shorter they will find out... soon. When the recently convicted murderer of two nine- year- old twin girls, the Detterick's, John Coffey, a giant black man, strong as an ox, enters his final home, sadistic prison guard Percy Wetmore, the governor's wife, nephew, he brags about the political connection constantly, enthusiastically shouts "Dead man walking ", the vicious young officer got that idea, reading it in a cheap magazine. Paul Edgecombe, the official in charge of the block, starts to believe he's innocent...a hopeless situation, Coffey's face is always covered with tears, he is afraid of the dark asking if the lights are kept on at night, the simple minded assassin can't read or write has trouble remembering, a gentle person that has unknown powers though..He cures Paul's very painful urinary tract infection, the very grateful guard tries to find out more information , about the stranger's case ...Mr. Jingles is not an official inmate in E Block, an unregistered guest you might say, a stowaway they would call him if this was a ship, in fact a mouse, quite intelligent for sure , but some others think , is something else entirely . The pet of soon to be extinct inmate M. Eduard Delacroix a Cajun from Louisiana, yet Mr. JINGLES , is obviously smarter then the doom Frenchman. All the guards love this brave little critter, feeding and even getting him a cigar box to sleep in, except you guessed it Percy , an enemy he got, by escaping his deadly clutches hiding in another room. John Coffey saves the mouse's life, the other men hate the creep Percy but cannot get rid of ....tensions increase as a murderer is put to death by Old Sparky ... an ugly, disgusting sight, the mistakes ( or are they) are caused by Mr.Wetmore, not realizing the consequences of his vengeance, he loathe the convict ...watched by witnesses who faint and get sick, puking their dinners. The officers involved in the execution including Paul , despise the job, but during the Great Depression, with long bread lines , they need to feed their families and themselves, many people would be eager to do it. Warden Hal Moores, (a good friend of Mr. Edgecombe)... wife , Melinda , is very ill she will die shortly if nothing is done now..Paul has an audacious , risky notion, maybe the healer Coffey can save this wonderful, kind woman , it can get him and his pals, the other correctional officers into a big mess...even jail time here in Cold Mountain, ironically. ..A superb story by Stephen King, always entertaining, you will learn also, and even feel the pain of the interesting characters...As good as the glorious film version.