[Reviewed in 2003.:]Have you ever read a book and been so affected by it that it moved you to tears? I just finished reading The Green Mile by Stephen King and I sat there tearing every few pages or so. It's incredible - the emotion, the feelings... Just the starkness of what's presented. It's a prison story, but moves beyond that, touching on naked human sensibilities, on basic human emotions. Ugh. I am really bad at reviews.What I can talk about, however, is the emotions that the books caused to arise in me.Do you believe that people can be evil? Hmm, let me be more specific. Do you believe that a person can be bad, or evil, or however you want to put it, without having any good in them? After reading this book, I would say yesh, there are people who don't have an ounce of good in them.I know, I know - the book is fiction, but that doesn't mean that it can't describe what can actually exist in real life (most of this particular book, anyway). One of the characters in the book was completely... I don't know if I can use the word evil in this context (evil implies demons, maybe even the opposite of god, things like that in my mind), but I guess bad, vicious, diabolic, wicked, cruel would seem like the appropriate description.Even when people gave him a break, after seeing the cruelty and callousness, it made no difference, he continued the same backbiting, sadistic ways of the past. And it didn't matter how many times he was "forgiven" or let off (for the unbelievably montrous deeds he committed), it was the same. One particular part that hit me hard was this (no spoilers ahead, in case you're planning to read - which I highly recommend you do!):"Then I understood why he had panicked, why he'd fought us so hard. He thought we were going to put him in with Wild Bill Wharton; that his punishment for the dry sponge was to be a dry cornholing from the resident psychopath. Instead of feeling sympathy for Percy at this realization, I felt disgusted and a hardening of my resolve. He was, after all, judging us by the way he would have behaved, had our positions been reversed."A person like this can't help but think others will do the same to him as he would to others. I guess that holds true to a certain degree for everyone too. I mean, how often do you think "outside the box"? How often do you think of why a person does or says something without your own perspective having influence over the thoughts? It takes a lot of conscious effort to do that, unless you're enlightened beyond that point.But anywho,amazingbook. I devoured it in two days - I couldn't put it down. In fact, I've been losing sleep the past two nights to the book. You really should check it out.