This was undoubtedly one of the best books I have ever read and I enjoyed it even more than I expected (and I had set the bar super high!). This was also the most horrible book I have ever read - but in the best possible way!Not a single sentence was unneccessary; I enjoyed every scene and interaction.The main character was wonderfully developed - he really seemed like a real person and at times it was hard for me to forget that he's just fictional. It was easy to forget that all of this was just made up (and yes, even the fantastical aspects were written and presented in a way that made them seem realistic and believable!).Some might say that John Coffey's character development falls a bit on the short side as you do not find out too much about him and his life. But I thought this was perfect for him and for the role he plays in the story.I found myself wanting to keep reading constantly. I wanted to find out so badly what would happen next, I forgot everything around me! But at the same time, I wanted to set the book aside and never pick it up again, because I just didn't want the story to end.I also want to mention that I have never seen the movie before (something I will now do as soon as possible!), so I absolutely had no idea what would happen. I'm really glad about this, because the events that unfolded in part 6 completely surprised me. Looking back to it, I have to say that the suspense and the buildup to it was done in a perfectly subtle way - something I would love to see more in other books! I often (correctly) guess what will happen in the end, but this time nothing prepared me and I was completely clueless throughout.Overall, this was a wonderful reading experience and I already know that this story is going to stay with me for the rest of my life (and will be reread many, many times). I wish I could describe my feelings about the topics of this book better, but there a simply too many feelings I have. I tried telling my mum about my thoughts, but I just couldn't find the right words - nothing seemed to do this fantastic book justice.