Do we choose our imaginary friends or do they choose us? If Calvin chose Hobbes, how do we explain episodes like this one:This comic pattern turns up throughout the story of C&amp;H; Calvin reveals an overwhelmingly self-serving viewpoint and Hobbes rolls his eyes so hard he risks brain damage. If Calvin is as selfish as he seems, wouldn't he be tempted to dream up a friend who coddles his ego? Yet Hobbes is far from a yes-tiger, which suggests Calvin realizes how unrealistic his world-view is. He knows that a friend worth having will serve as both co-conspirator and skeptic. And the series often reaches hilarious heights when it plays on this dynamic:Hobbes might check Calvin's delusions, but he's also the only character who takes them seriously or even understands what his friend is about. For a child that barely fits into the world around him, that's a big deal. Calvin's parents and peers generally don't get him:The irony of the comic is that the reader can see the comic brilliance that informs Calvin while the inhabitants of his world only see weird and willful. Calvin refuses to tailor his antics to match his audience so he can't serve as a popular class clown and he refuses to compromise his creative vision so he acts a hellion despite his intelligence. It is perilously rare that Calvin's sense of humor clicks with another character (besides Hobbes of course), which is part of why the following comic rocks the funny bone so hard:In a lot of ways, Hobbes shows us what Calvin might be like when he matures; with softened ambitions, an understanding of the need for responsibility and a greater empathy for other people. Hobbes is also a subtle humorist who doesn't require immediate reaction:And there are other things that make Hobbes seem more adult. While Calvin looks at girls with disgust, Hobbes dreams of smooches. Hobbes is taller, more athletic and possesses a more practical strategic mind and he generally gets the better of Calvin when they compete; be it in water-balloon battles, checkers or football (Calvinball obviously doesn't have traditional winners and losers.)Why dream up a friend so much more capable than oneself? Because passing these mature attributes off on someone else frees Calvin to revel in childhood and childishness. Calvin knows adulthood looms. He knows that once he grows up there's no going back. Having Hobbes as a best friend means he can celebrate egotism and immaturity while still developing his social and creative skills for when he inevitably has to let his childhood go. By imagining what Hobbes would do or say, Calvin builds a model for his future self without betraying his present values. Calvin is so dedicated to maintaining his immature persona that, in my favorite story-arc of the series, he passes the credit for his greatest academic achievement to Hobbes:But while Hobbes gives Calvin a model of who he might be one day, he still has a psychological leap to make. Calvin fights responsibility with every fiber of his being, often at great cost in terms of the esteem and understanding of his parents. Near the end of the series Bill Watterson points to how Calvin might find common ground with adulthood; sometimes all it takes is to have an authority figure take you serious and give you a choice. And who knows, the authority figure might get something out of it too:Edited 2-17-2017