This book.This book.Honestly, I would go as far to say that it is a masterpiece, in its scope, its characterisation, its history, and its story. Never have I been so enthralled in such a long book, to the point where I was never bored and constantly wishing I was reading it when I wasn't able to (damn you work *shakes fist*). And never have I read a near-1000 page novel in such a short space of time!For those of you who haven't seen the film,Gone With the Windis a sweeping Civil War-era drama, coming-of-age tale, and romance. It follows Scarlett O'Hara, the Southern Belle daughter of an Irish immigrant and plantation owner, who has to come into her own and fight for safety and security when her comfortable, gentile life is ripped apart by war. That's all you need to know really, because any more detail than that would probably spoil the book for you.The story itself is tremendous - part historical fiction novel, part character study. I normally dislike books that detail aspects of war/battles/troop movements, but not with this one. I found myself learning something about American history (an area I'm not particularly versed in), whilst following the lives of a group of characters that I completely felt for and cared about, which is a double plus for me.The characterisation is one of the best things about this book. Each and every character is brilliantly portrayed, and the lead characters are so fully rounded that you can barely believe they're fictional - they bounce off the page and overwhelm your thoughts. Scarlett O'Hara is one of the most unlikable characters I have ever read, and I still loved her, because everything she did and said had apurpose. She was well fleshed out and believable, and a real force of nature on the page. Melanie, the picture of gentle sweetness and everything women were meant to be at the time, was another character that had an iron will and real back-bone - never a 'too good to be true' type, she had real 'gumption'. And of course there's Rhett Butler, who appears to stir shit up whenever he likes, but who underneath his bravado and sarcasm has a full and loving heart and a great dedication to the causes and people he believes in.I felt the book was very well written - not because the writing was particularly florid and heart-stopping, but because I felt Mitchell managed to great such a brilliantly technicolor world that I felt like I was there each and every time. I loved every description of every surrounding, drinking it all in like I was watching it on the big screen, and at times I felt moved to tears (in public no less!).And did my having seen the film already take away from this reading experience? Well no. I had seen the film quite a few years ago, so a lot of elements were quite hazy to me, but the book has so much more to provide the consumer than the film in my opinion. Saying that, I will be re-watching the film as soon as I have a spare 4 hours!Now this is not to say that there isn't anything problematic with the novel. There is a great deal of racism, both in content and language, and the role of women is something that is deemed archaic now. The racism within the book affected me more than the role of women, and there times where I couldn't believe what I was reading, but we have to take a step back and remember that this book is set in the 1800s, and not even that, was published in the 1930s. Slavery was a major element of The American Civil War, and this book is told from a Southern perspective, so representation is biased and problematic. In order to be a true representation of the slave-owning classes, it's not surprising that this content is so prevalent, and I felt like it just wouldn't have been believable or historically accurate if this content had been toned down. Just be aware of this if you are particularly sensitive to race issues, but at the end of the day I think most people know what they're getting themselves in for with this story.Honestly, I would recommend this book to everyone. Unlike most long books for me, this book read incredibly easily, and despite the slow pace of the story itself the reading experience wasn't slow and never dragged. I was absolutely captivated from start to finish, and this has immediately gone onto my favourites list. Definitely a book I will re-read for years to come.