As readers, we have the wonderful advantage of perspective. We can empathise with characters because we know how they think and feel and we're touched by it. My dad is a cinephile and despite never having read the book, has seenGone with the Windmultiple times. Based on this, he views Scarlett as selfish and spoilt, when she's actually so much more than that. I enjoyed the film very much, but I wish adaptations wouldn't have to downplay characters so. Despite all of this, I love movie-Scarlett. Vivien LeighisScarlett O'Hara.-------------------------------------I convinced my mom to give this a go. You can read her reviewhere. We're hoping to watch the movie soon, albeit it won't be in a single sitting. Actually, even if something were an hour long, we wouldn't see it in one sitting.-------------------------------------Next Tuesday I'll be travelling to Santiago. Hardly ever do I make a dent in a book while on holiday, but I always bring one anyway. I got this on my Kindle a little over a week ago to curb my in-flight boredom. I didn't know anything about it until I started reading. The story begins on a plantation in Georgia in the 1860s where we are introduced to our femme fatale, Scarlett O'Hara. All the boys love her, but she doesn't care about them. Ashley Wilkes is the only one for her. When she hears that he's going to get married, she naturally decides to profess her undying love to him at a party to win him over. When he denies her, she becomes angry and smashes a vase only to discover that their conversation wasn't so private after all. A man named Rhett Butler has been quietly chuckling in the room over her outburst. What an utter cad!For the sake of those who aren't familiar with the story, I won't give any more of it away. All of that is essentially the backbone of what is to take place in this decent-sized tome. Of the many themes in this book, a Southern way of life is one of the most prominent. Slavery is unfortunately a part of that. At one point there's a heated conversation between Scarlett and some Yankee women. One of the women asks Scarlett how to find a new nurse to look after her children. By the end of it I couldn't help but raise my brows and wonder if all the Confederates were as bad as we make them out to be."My nurse, my Bridget, has gone back North. She said she wouldn't stay another day down here among the 'naygurs' as she calls them. And the children are just driving me distracted! Do tell me how to go about getting another nurse. I do not know where to apply.""That shouldn't be difficult," said Scarlett and laughed. "If you can find a darky just in from the country who hasn't been spoiled by the Freedmen's Bureau, you'll have the best kind of servant possible. Just stand at your gate here and ask every darky woman who passes and I'm sure-"The three women broke out into indignant outcries."Do you think I'd trust my babies to a black nigger?" cried the Maine woman. "I want a good Irish girl.""I'm afraid you'll find no Irish servants in Atlanta," answered Scarlett, coolness in her voice. "Personally, I've never seen a white servant and I shouldn't care to have one in my house. And," she could not keep a slight note of sarcasm from her words, "I assure you that darkies aren't cannibals and are quite trustworthy.""Goodness, no! I wouldn't have one in my house. The idea!""I wouldn't trust them any farther than I could see them and as for letting them handle my babies...""It's strange you should feel that way when when it was you all who freed them.""Lor'! Not I dearie," laughed the Maine woman. "I never saw a nigger till I came South last month and I don't care if I never see another. They give me the creeps. I wouldn't trust one of them..."Another strong theme in this book is loss. After the war many people cannot let go of losing their way of life and are winnowed out. The people who are brave and smart naturally survive.For those who've read this book and are curious, my favourite character is Rhett followed by Melanie. The characters in this book are very believable and easy to relate to. Although this is considered a romance, it's not a typical one. There are times of elation and triumph, but there are bittersweet and heartbreaking moments as well. I don't think it could have been done any better.This may not have the kind of writing style that will sweep you off your feet (see here), but it does prove that story is and will always be king. The last time that I read a book nearly as good as this was over a year ago and it wasThe Picture of Dorian Gray. I don't think I've ever read something of this length so rapidly. I can see myself re-reading this and savouring it. There's something immensely special and enchanting about this that I will always treasure. I haven't seen the film yet, but I'll make sure to update when I do.