Jealousy, "The green -ey'd monster," that is what the wise Shakespeare wrote...Othello loved his wife, Desdemona, too much so, nothing could continue that fever, emotions lessen over time....The mighty general was a very capable soldier of Venice, commanding respect on the battlefield, he could do no wrong, brave, ferocious, dynamic, his sword deadly, still life is more complicated than just war, though, the Moor was a fish out of water, in a quite different, and strange culture, becoming a Christian, fighting for Europeans, against his former friends, marrying a gorgeous, gentle, young , very sheltered, naive woman, their elopement crushed the spirits of her father, Brabantio, an influential Senator, in the mighty Venetian Republic... Assigned by the Duke, (Doge) to lead in the defense of their important colony, of Cyprus , against the Ottoman Empire's vast , invading fleet, he unwisely takes his new bride, Desdemona, with him. Luckily a boiling sea storm, who's gigantic waves rise, then fall, pulverize the Turkish ships, wrecks spewed over and under the Mediterranean Sea's floor, only a few escape the carnage. Othello's own greatly damaged craft, somehow, stays above the foaming water, and limps into a safe harbor , on the mountainous island, a miracle. Nevertheless the crisis seemingly solved, but not for Othello...it has just begun, for the much too trusting general, has an officer, honest Iago, ( his wife Emilia, is a loyal servant of Desdemona) starting to whisper in his ear, that all is not well in his marriage. That the loving, innocent appearing woman, is not so...he has been betrayed by her with another man, his buddy, Michael Cassio, the second -in -command, in the army, better looking and younger than the Moor. Can this be true ? Disbelief becomes belief, why would the good Iago, lie...Desdemona, his pride, and salvation, maybe is false... The calm, unfazed , in bloody battle, Othello, becomes agitated, seething in uncontrollable rage, his whole body enveloped with it, his one idea, to seek sweet revenge, only by this, can he be satisfied, nothing else matters, yet his career will end, but that is not important now, he must do what his honor demands, less is not acceptable for a respectable man... A magnificent play , that encompasses the thin line between love and hate, animosity, racial hatred, jealousy, suspicion, believing in the evil, not the goodness of the erratic world, everything's an illusion, nobody is what they seem, deception engulfs all...but are these things the whole story... A virtuoso work by an incomparable master...