Book Review4+ of 5 stars toOthello, a tragic play written in 1603, byWilliam Shakespeare. When it comes to writing a thorough review about this Shakespearean work of art, it could take weeks and days to craft perfection; however, I've already stumbled upon a few across Goodreads, and the world doesn't need another interpretation by a middle-aged white guy. Nor does it need my opinion about what this says of a person's ethnic background, skin color or personality traits. But what the world does need to hear from me... at least if I'm going to post a review... is why I liked it. And I'll keep it shorts, as we've all likely studied this one in high school or college, read it on our own, or watched a TV/Film adaption at some point. If you haven't, shame on you... stop reading right now, go find one, then come back and let's chat.All sarcasm aside, my commentary on Othello is going to purely reflect my thoughts on three characters: Desdemona, Othello and Iago. Your non-classic classic triangle. A battle of good versus evil. Issues of trust in a marriage. All themes that have been explored countless times in literature. What captivates my attention in this play, over 400 years old, is the connection between Desdemona and Othello. A pure love tortured by all the games people play.Desdemona is an enigma. She is a beautiful woman. A Greek goddess by any other means. She has it all. But she still falls prey to another's claws. We've all been there. None of us are strong enough to resist with 100% force that our lover, partner, significant other or spouse are truly perfect. Doubt will always pervade our minds. Sometimes it's just a momentary twitch. Others, you stalk the person until you are convinced chastity remains. :)Othello is brilliant. He's strong and faithful. He is powerful. But he is weak. As are we all. We allow ourselves to get into these positions, all because of experience and hearsay and tunnel vision. He is flawed, but he is every single one of us.Iago, of course, the villain. Perhaps he simply has his own needs and wants. Maybe he is trying to meet his own objectives in some strange manner. But he is what so many future evil characters are based upon.Reading this story in play format would be hard by today's standards. But Shakespeare made it glisten during his time, and for me, it does so now, as well.I love this story for all the hidden gems. It has more complexities than most of his other works, though many would argue it's a basic story of love, betrayal, revenge and confusion. At first glance, yes. But when you dig deeper, you'll find all the treasures.I promised short... I've gone overboard. But hopefully your eyes are tearing from boredom. Read it please. And let's converse, friends.About MeFor those new to me or my reviews... here's the scoop: I read A LOT. I write A LOT. And now I blog A LOT. First the book review goes on Goodreads, and then I send it on over to my WordPress blog athttps://thisismytruthnow.com, where you'll also find TV &amp; Film reviews, the revealing and introspective 365 Daily Challenge and lots of blogging about places I've visited all over the world. And you can find all my social media profiles to get the details on the who/what/when/where and my pictures. Leave a comment and let me know what you think. Vote in the poll and ratings. Thanks for stopping by.