*I just watched the movie and I can safely say that the book was 100x more enjoyable for me. I didn't like the changes that they did, but the cast was spot on. Couldn't ask for a better Paul and Annie.-------------After the two month hiatus from Stephen King, I promised myself that I'm not going to let the fact that he's my favorite author, affect my rating of whatever book of his I'm reading next. I think I've proven myself before by giving Wizard and Glass a 2-star rating, even if it was damn hard. I'm very straightforward when it comes to wasted time because of reading a horrible book. Misery is not one of those books. Misery is one of those I'd recommend it to everybody I know kind of books.I'm not going to dwell much on the summary, because it sucks when spoilers ruin one's book experience. I've had a few encounters with spoilers, and honestly that's the real reason why I haven't read Stephen King's "It" yet. I already know the secret/mystery to it, but I'm getting a first edition hardbound copy of it though, so I'm reading it soon. Anyway, back to Misery. To keep it short, it's all about Paul Sheldon, the writer, being held captive of the crazy psycho Annie. She's obsessed with him, but that's not the only reason why she did those crazy things. She's just normally cock-a-doodie in the head.Just like most of the King novels I've read, the main epitome of greatness lies on the characters. King has the gift of creating characters that would leave a mark. They're just so well developed that you'd learn to love them one way or another. Paul was quite similar to Louis Creed from Pet Sematary. His writer characters are quite similar in a few manners but they still have great qualities of their own. Paul exuded a genuine personality in this novel. It was hard not to like him because his panicky behavior right from the first ten chapters already made me like him a lot. Right till the end, he remained true to his character. Annie on the other hand was completely terrifying. I love psychological thrillers, but Stephen King managed to incorporate a huge amount of horror in the genre. Annie was not just scary, but she gave me a phobia. A phobia of crazy psychos capable of doing what she did in the novel. I liked her, despite all the craziness, because she delivered what she was supposed to in the first place. In the psycho thriller genre, the crazier and scarier the better. King can write anything he wants.Aside from the characters, I really liked the violence. Annie didn't hold back, she did crazy gut wrenching things. I've read and seen worse of course, but the things she did were still quite scary. Because it seems to fit the situation well, and hopefully you guys reading this used to watch spongebob, all I can say is "MY LEEEEEG".5/5 stars. Like I said in the first part of my review, I was not biased when I rated this a 5. This novel deserves no less. It was amazing and I can't believe I've only read this now. I'm highly recommending this, but be warned that you might lose a few nights sleep. Pet Sematary was still a bit scarier that this, but Misery gave a different kind of scare because it didn't have that supernatural element that I knew was not going to happen in Sematary. Misery felt real because there might be an Annie waiting to kidnap me like that. King can give you different kinds of scare, and all of them are equally terrifying. One of those King novels I plan on reading again in the future.