4 and a half stars, rounded up.Knowing how much I love classical history, my darling husband suggested we watch "Agora", a fictionalized account of the life of Hypatia of Alexandria, who was once the most famous mathematician of the Roman Empire (poor thing, he had no idea what he was getting into...). That sounded fascinating to me, and the movie was beautifully shot and acted. But then. Then there was a scene when the Library of Alexandria is stormed by fanatics Christians and they burn everything down as Hypatia, her students and her father try to save the books. I stopped the DVD and I cried for almost half an hour. I cried because of the ignorance and fanaticism that bred that violence and destruction. I cried for all the lost knowledge that we will never get back. I cried because sometimes I'm afraid something like this is going to happen again.I could never bring myself to finish the movie, but I looked for books on Hypatia because I found her story incredibly interesting, inspiring and tragic.The book opens with the same scene that broke my heart in the movie: people burning books while other people desperately try to save them. It follows the life of Hypatia from that horrific day to her equally horrifying death, at the hand of a mob of mad Christians.The story is told from the points of view of Hypatia herself, Minkah, a man who followed her father for his own mysterious purpose, and Jone, Hypatia's young sister. Longfellow has given each of them a unique voice and perspective on this tumultuous period of the Roman Empire's history. Alexandria was the unofficial center of the learned-world: people from all over the known world went there for the mathematicians and philosophers. But Christianity was getting a strong traction, and some sects insisted that learning was not as important as believing, and that too much education could ruin faith if it was subversive or "demonic". Through the characters' voices, this opposition between critical thinking and faith is explored, but also how the two can complement each other when there is true curiosity of mind and honesty.What makes this book so interesting is the richness of the ideas that Hypatia and Minkah brew in their minds as they tell the reader what is going on. The characters are well constructed, and they have amazing thoughts. Hypatia, quite simply, wants to understand everything she comes into contact with. She sees learning as a treasure, and her inquisitive and logical mind can't grasp why people would reject that to preach a way of life based on things she sees to be objectively false. She does not want to judge them, she wants to know how their minds do this trick of following something that can so easily be shown to make no sense. Eventually, her only weapon against this threat to everything she holds dear is to be the most brilliant teacher of the city, in the hopes that some who come to her lecture will start thinking. Minkah's original goal is foiled by this very brilliance, when he begins to fall in love with Hypatia, not because she is beautiful, but because she sees the world so differently from everyone else, and can talk about it so eloquently. Jone's chapters are heartbreaking: her mother died birthing her, and it is made clear right off the bat that her father Theon holds this against her and has no love for her. When she becomes a Christian, it is partly out of faith and partly because she knows it is what will hurt her family the most - and every step she takes afterwards is dictated by this resentment and anger.I loved the reflection on the idea that faith deprived of thinking becomes bigotry, of intellectual laziness as a slow-acting poison that destroys otherwise good people. And while not Christian myself, I appreciated that the book is clearly taking a stance against fanatics, bigots and power-hungry psychos, and not against Christianity itself. In fact, the Gnostic gospels are frequently mentioned as texts of great interest to pagan philosophers and scientists. Hypatia develops what I would call an almost Zen understanding of the universe after reading some of them, and seeing how some of their ideas complement what astronomy and mathematics taught her about the universe.I'm always on my guard when I pick up historical fiction about the bad-ass women of history that I admire so much: most writers don't want to write about their accomplishments, they are usually just interested in writing who they fell in love with and slept with. This book does a great job of showing the attraction between Hypatia and Minkah without ever putting it at the center of the plot. It's a thing, sure, but it's not what drives the story forward. There is much more to them than romance.A very good book, for ancient history buffs, feminists and people who love to think and learn and read. It made me want to dig up all my ancient classics, such as Herodotus, Cicero and Plutarch.