My favorite book in the universe. Decisively not for everyone, it is rambling, preachy, occasionally tedious, and always outrageously British. Much of it consists of a cranky Englishman going on and on about whatever happens to pop into his head, whether it be the intricacies of jousting or lamentations on the current state of film industry (yeah, what?). Many will find it insufferably pretentious. Which it is! But it is also hilarious, and sad, and it contains everything that is good about life. Well, maybe not EVERYTHING (Jackie Chan, for instance, is not featured), but more of it than rightly belongs in a single book.I will attempt to explain four reasons why I love this book so much. First, it contains in the chapters about Sir Lancelot the most accurate description of chronic depression that I have ever read. Secondly, King Pellinore. He is awesomeness. Full stop.Third, for all his verbosity, White knows how to cut with words. Every once in a while reading this massive tome, I will come across a single line that is so devastatingly sad, or so deeply, uncomfortably penetrating, or so... so... I don't even KNOW what, that just reading makes me feel like White just concentrated all the wisdom and wit in the universe into some kind of literary laser-beam and used it to cut away at curtain of reality just a teensy bit, then pulled it back to expose some sort of deep, eternal truth about the human condition. And this is from a science guy who thinks that the human condition as revealed by literature is bullshit. Some of these lines are on my profile. They might not work so well out of context.Fourthly, reading this book made me a better person. The Once and Future King is fundamentally about a group of people struggling very, very hard to Do the Right Thing. They're usually not sure what that thing is. Most of them destroy themselves in the doing of it. And, of course, it's not clear that they succeed. But the trying is beautiful. And it made me think that maybe I should try too, every once in a while.If anyone is actually reading this, I assure you that this is by far the most earnest thing I will ever write. Everything else will be full of hipster snark and irony.