April 12th, 2019:I will NEVER get tired of reading this book.Review afterre-re-reading from Feb 27th to March 1st 2013:Read it again for the third time! What can I say, I just love this book. So much that I want to marry it. Seriously. I love Cinder. And Iko. And Kai. And I really want to bitch slap Adri and Queen Levana. I swear, every time I read this book, they seem to get bitchier and bitchier.I am now ready to start Scarlet! OHMAGERD I'M SO EFFIN' EXCITED XD.Review after re-reading from Oct 3rd to 4th 2012:Oh my stars. I didn't think it was possible, but Cinder was even better the second time around. How can a book bethisperfect? GAH! This is the first book I've re-read in a loooooong time, as I rarely ever re-read books. This just shows how awesome Cinder is.I found a lot more little details that I hadn't noticed before. Like how Iko refers to the old, ugly orange car as a "pumpkin" (teehee). And how Dr. Erland kept smiling secretly everytime he talked to Cinder about Lunars.Cinder...her situation broke my heart. I can really connect with her. So much that at times it felt like I was actually her. I really want Iko as a best friend! Forget humans. And Kai? Dude. LET'S GO GET MARRIED! XDI'm praying to all the Book Gods above for the release date of Scarlet to move up. I promise I'll read more. I promise to give more books a chance. I promise I won't judge a book before I read it. JUST GIVE ME SCARLET! &gt;.&lt;Review after reading for the first time (Feb 5th to Feb 7th 2012):HOLY CHEESUS.People. PEOPLE. This book...I-I...I think I'm in love. *gazes at the book*OHMAGOSH IT WAS SO GOOD!When I first heard about this book, I was very skeptical. See, I'm not a big fan of the whole fairytale re-telling thing. You have to actuallyknowthe fairy tales well to understand the re-tellings. I do know many fairy tales, everyone has heard at least one right? But I'm no expert on them. But if anyone asked me what my favourite fairytale is, I'd say Cinderella. I dunno, I just love Cinderella's story. But some re-tellings fail horribly. Hearing all the buzz about this book, I couldn't help but be intrigued. Eventually, I was practically DYING to read it. There was a teeny, tiny part of my brain warning me not too get too excited in case this book fails as well.From the first chapter, I fell for this book. HARD.The Good- The first thing I want to talk about, which is the most important thing, was how well the author molded theCinderellafairytale into this re-telling. And it was not done well. Nope. It was done AMAZINGLY well. The evil stepmother and step-sisters, the prince, the ball, the "shoe" left behind *sigh*. It was all just so well done. I was following the original Cinderella story in my head and kept matching it to the story, half-afraid that the author would mess up and leave something out, but she didn't. I applaud her.- I loved the setting! Not many dystopian books I've read take place in places other than North America but this book took place in New Beijing. I thought it was very creative and unique. The only thing I was a bit confused about was the language. I wasn't sure if EVERYONE was speaking English, or Beijing's national language (which I think is Mandarin - I might be wrong) and we were reading the translated version. Cinder did mention different accents, but I wasn't sure. Aside from that, I loved the setting.- The plot was well thought out in accordance to the fairytale. I completely fell in love with Cinder's story. I also loved the Lunar concept. I had figured out a thing or two myself, but the twists in this story had me gasping left and right.- The romance! GAH! It wasn't heavy, nor was it minimum, just enough amount to fit the story. But it was SO good. I was squealing over and over again! GAAAH!- Oh, and the cover. LOVE IT! I am sick and tired of seeing covers with girls in dresses and while they can be very pretty, most of them barely show what the book is actually about. The cover of Cinder is not only gorgeous and eye-catching, but also show sort of a glimpse of the story. It's very creepy, with the robotic limbs and the shoe. I can't stop staring at this cover.I won't be includingThe In-BetweensorThe Badsections in this review because this book was just perfect. The only thing I didn't like was the fact that with every page that I turned, I was nearing the end. Which I did not want. I tried reading as slow as possible, but I also had to know how this ended! GAH!The Characters- I've read a few books before where the main character is part human and part machine, but Cinder was different. She had all these cool features, like the internet installed in her brain, the choice to shut out noises, and even compartmentsinside her legto store stuff. Oh, the many times when I wished I could do that. Cinder was a great character to read and man, I felt so bad for her. She did not deserve to be treated this way. But she fights back and the more she rebelled, the more I loved her. In a way, I could understand her feelings and felt very connected to her. I nearly cried for her at the ending.- Iko! AH! If I could have a robot as a sidekick, I'd want Iko. She's probably the girliest robot I know.- I HATED Adri. She was worse than the original stepmother. I wished she'd gotten the disease.- Kai. Prince Kai. Give me a second to squeal first. *KKYYYAAAAAHHH!!!* Ahem, anyways. Kai was...so awesome. I don't even know how to describe how awesome he is. He was cute, funny, and incredibly HOT. If I lived in New Beijing, I'd no doubt be one of the girls fawning over him (though I probably wouldn't be as obvious). I mean, he's a freakin' PRINCE. About to be Emperor. Damn. But he was also a regular guy. Who was freaked out over the thought of ruling an actual country, finding a cure for the disease, and being a leader to thousands of people. That's a lot for a guy his age. But he was also strong and I believe that he will be a GREAT leader. I cant wait to see how he develops in the future novels.- And then there's Queen Levana. All I want to say about her, is that I hope this itch with a capital B gets taught a lesson.Recommended?HELL FREAKIN' YEAH! Unless, you know, you don't like Cinderella...or cyborgs...or hot Asian Princes...So, basically, this book was epic. Epic x100. I have a lot more to say about this book, but my brain is all jumbled and I can't form proper sentences, but the point is, YOU NEED TO GET THIS BOOK. I'm so glad I listened to myself and bought the book instead of taking it out from the library because if I had, I would have gotten in trouble for stealing a book from the library. But now I can hold this book in my hands, and NO ONE CAN TAKE IT AWAY FROM ME! HAH!Why oh WHY is the next book so far away? *sigh*I'm gonna go and continue what I was doing before.*gazes at Cinder*