This year I made it my goal to increase the amount of Shakespeare plays I have read and this included revisiting some of my favourites. I first read King Lear whilst in school, and can remember relatively little about my experience of reading it but could recall the most significant moments of the plot.This focuses on the family drama that ensues after King Lear requests his three daughters to pronounce their love for their father. The two eldest daughters freely proclaim their love whilst younger and most favoured daughter, Cordelia, states little of her affections. Due to this recalcitrance her portion of her father's land is split between the other two sisters and Cordelia is cast out. Little does Lear know of the self-serving nature of his remaining two daughters, and how their pretty words to do not reflect their heart's true desires.Perhaps it is due to this being my second reading or maybe it is the increase of Shakespeare I have read recently, but I found the readibility of this piece flowed far smoother than with other of his plays. There was little I struggled with and I absorbed the entire drama in one sitting.I have found other of the bard's plays to be so renowned as they primarily dealt with timeless concepts. This can be evidenced, again, here in the focus of the conflicts between parents and their children, which is also evident in the clever mirroring of sub-plot with central plot. This is actually quite infuriating as the reader is made aware of who the 'good' characters are before the other characters themselves do. With both their suffering and the reader's intensified because of this.Shakespeare has created some classically-structured, villainous characters and yet managed to make them not seem two-dimensional to the modern-day reader, who can clearly identify them. That, and the timeless and still-relevant topics covered, as well the the sublime prose used to depict them, makes this another example of exactly why Shakespeare is still so beloved.