Update 1/24/2012.I probably should already stop being surprised by the fact that every time I reread a book, I come up with something new to say (or feel) about it. Looks like my previous reading ofGracelingcaused a lengthy rant. Yeah, no such strong feelings this time.This time, I was able to appreciate the writing more. It's lovely. I really love how it flows, how the sentences connect. This book stands the test of time. And it's great that it stirs so much discussion and, often, outrage.But, but, but. On a personal level, I still disagree with some of Katsa's views. There is a paragraph in the middle of the novel that is especially jarring to my sensibilities.If she took Po as her husband, she would be making promises about a future she couldn't yet see. For once she became his wife, she would be his forever. And, no matter how much freedom Po gave her, she would always know that it was a gift. Her freedom would be not be her own; it would be Po's to give or to withhold. That he never would withhold it made no difference. If it did not come from her, it was not really hers.The way I see it, there is a fundamental flaw in Katsa's logic. This notion that marriage takes one's freedom, that once you unite with someone, your spouse controls you. This is not what I believe in.I am leaving my previous review of the book too. At the moment, I don't feel as strongly about the issues I was so eager to target back then. But who knows what I will feel in a few years?PreviouslyThis is my second reading of "Graceling" and I found myself enjoying it probably even more than when I read it the first time. I am once again convinced that Cashore is a very talented writer with a great future ahead of her."Graceling" is Cashore's first novel and what a great debut it is! Now, having read her second book "Fire," I know that she is developing as a writer in many ways. This particular book is very imaginative, the idea of Graces is original (at least to me) and intriguing - I especially enjoy the fact that the Graces are never what they appear to be at first. They are complex and ever evolving. I also appreciate Cashore's writing style - it is simple, concise, but yet very descriptive and emotional.What greatly frustrates me about Cashore's writing, and the main reason I find it impossible for myself to give her books 5 stars, is ultimate weakness of her heroines (both Katsa and Fire) and their strange and obsessive attitudes toward marriage and children.(view spoiler)[Katsa is supposedly an independent woman who wants nobody to take care of her. I understand this desire for independence very well. For the longest time I myself refused idea of marriage and I don't have kids, but even I find Katsa's unyielding desire to never marry or to commit strange, considering her journey in this novel. The saddest thing about this book is definitely the epilogue. It is so unsatisfying to me that Katsa, even after all her adventures and all the proof of Po's love and devotion to her, still chooses to do "as she pleases" - to go about her business leaving Po behind to be her occasional lover, to make sure she does not "stop him from loving anyone else." I can't stop myself from asking - is this really love? to go as you please and leave the man you love to look for someone else to love? is this really love to make your own choices without factoring in your partner and your partner's wishes into your plans for the future? is this love when you decide what will happen in your life and your partner settles for anything you can give him, no matter how little it is? My answer is "no."I am not propagating marriage here in any way, but I do feel that Katsa at the least is insecure and doesn't trust Po's love for her and at the most is selfish in her petulant decision to stay her own woman by refusing any claim Po can possible have on her (be that a wife or a life partner). I fail to understand why Katsa thinks that marrying Po or committing herself to him fully would ever put constraints on her independence? Does she know him at all? If she trusts Po so little, why is she with him? If all she wants is sex, can't she find a man who is as afraid of commitment as she is? Why hurt Po so? And how long such relationship can last while Katsa is being her own woman and encouraging Po to go around looking for someone else to love?In the end, I just feel that Cashore here lost an opportunity to show Katsa's emotional growth. I don't mean that marriage to Po would have proven her to be a better person, but the ability to fully commit and to surrender to and to trust her partner, certainly would. In my eyes, Katsa starts her journey being scared of trusting people and fearful of commitment, and ends it without changing in any significant way. It makes me sad for her, because in real life people stuck on their trust issues, people who do not grow and change and learn to trust, fail their relationships over and over again. Cashore tries to portray Katsa's decision as a triumph of her independence, but for me it is merely an indication of a victory of Katsa's fears over her life experiences.And here is the last argument I am going to make against the message of this book. Imagine if it were Po who made Katsa's decisions - Po who says he will never marry Katsa, Po who will never agree to give her children, Po who will ride around going about his business and occasionally meeting Katsa for hook-ups. What would we call such a man? A commitment-phobic pig? And yet, we call Katsa a feminist and a strong woman. There is a disconnect here somewhere, don't you think?Katsa and Po will appear in Cashore's next book "Bitterblue" and I am very curious to see where she is planning to take their relationship. I wish them happiness, but with current attitude of Katsa's I simply don't see it happening.(hide spoiler)]I understand that this rant might seem like a petty nitpicking, but I guess I appreciate Cashore's writing too much to leave my personal feelings about this book unexpressed.Reading challenge: #8