Let's get this done. My dinner is getting cold, and I have dreams to crush. Ready? Andiamo!BOOM #1: KatsaWhile I love the author's intent for empowerment with Katsa, she was a bit too much of a special snowflake for me. I will forever fist-pump to her unstoppable strength as a warrior, a woman and a person, but at the end of the day she was highly unrealistic and too much of a caricature for me.She's kind of a double edged-sword in terms of her feminist appeal, too. Instead of helping the women in the rest of the land to defend themselves and educating them on how to be stronger and stand up for themselves, which she has the means and freedom to do (as a privileged person; Katsa has grown up surrounded by wealth and resources. She is oppressed as a woman, treated terribly, but institutional class privilege still exists and it still works in her favour compared to all the poor women living in squalor and within unwanted marriages across the land) she simply looked down on them because they were not as physically strong as she. Feminism is about appreciating, supporting and celebrating women of all tastes, backgrounds, creeds and lifestyles, and it's sad that this book did not hit the mark in this area. Check your privilege, know your capabilities, lend a hand. (And support your sisters, not just your cis-ters.)Having said that, it was refreshing to experience a female character who leaps off the page, doesn't take a single smidge of shit, and who doesn't fuck around with a silly "what about teh menz" mantra. I regret my response a couple of years ago when I read this and was still dealing with some internalized misogyny, using ridiculous terms like "sexism against men" and "feminazi". This book is the result of righteous female anger against a genre and a world that treats women like inhuman shit. This book is important, despite some of its messages missing the mark, and when I read it now through twenty-year-old eyes, more seasoned eyes, eyes that have done their reading and lived some experiences and become righteous in their own female anger, it is cast in a new light.I also see and very much like the great focus on female relationships in this book - we go through a thick wedge of pages in which it is just Katsa and Bitterblue, no knights in shining armour in sight. No men, just women being comrades in arms. Alas, Bitterblue is a princess, privileged in status, and again I find myself wishing Katsa's power had reached out and perhaps changed the lives of others less fortunate for the better. She could have taught the girls who cut her hair, who so relied on the men in their lives to protect them, how to hold a knife or be self-sufficient but she simply moved on and forgot about them.(I've learned since that Katsa opens a school for teaching girls how to fight, but I have not read any other books in this series. I can only review what I have read.)On a high note, Cashore does earn significant Brownie points for making Katsa unapologetically sexual, and for adding a nice little birth control accent to round off the whole sex thing on a safe note. It's a shitty trope in YA that "if you have sex you will get pregnant and die". In the background, Katsa is laughing.BOOM #2: PlotThe plot of this book was strong, though a lot of time was spend riding around on horses to nowhere. It would have been nice to always know what was going on, but I suppose we can't have everything.BOOM #3: PacingThe pacing was slow. A hundred pages could have been shaved off and we wouldn't be any the wiser. However, the strong opening chapters and the time Katsa spent in the court moved swiftly and was a fair hook.BOOM #4: Love interestI say love interest because Po was nothing more than that. It was wonderful to read a book in which the main male character did not upstage the heroine and did not take it upon himself to defend her ovaries, because Po always respected Katsa'a strength of body and character. I do wish, however, that Po would have been less of a two-dimensional doormat. The way he simply shrugged off being hit so hard he fell out of his chair and bled was alarming.There is never any excuse for hitting one's partner, regardless of the victim's gender, age, size, sexuality, etcetera.Hitting your partner doesn't make you strong or passionate, it makes you an asshole. And you lose even more points if you hit them on reflex. Hitting when you know what you're doing is one thing but when you lash out as a natural reaction to upsetting news then you need even more therapy than you did when you knew what you were doing.Just don't fucking hit the people you love. Don't hit anyone. Okay?BOOM #5: WritingThe writing was solid, enjoyable, if sometimes a little muddled. I occasionally found myself re-reading sentences multiple times because they didn't make sense. Also, the overuse of commas was irritating. But the dialogue was good, clearly well thought-out, and for a high fantasy setting the tense and person was well-chosen.BOOM #6: Don't hurt your animalsSeriously. The amount of animal mistreatment in this book was unsettling. Katsa lames a horse because she rides it over unsuitable terrain, and then furiously demands they kick it on regardless. Note: horses can literally die from issues with their feet and legs.However, it should bear in one's mind that this book is written in an old-timey fantasy setting where people didn't really give a shit about the needs of horses or the injustice of foie gras.BOOM #7: ConclusionThere's a lot to love here, but I did have some issues, mostly with the slow pacing, meandering plot and Katsa being a little too much of a perfect petunia and thus sort of unrelatable. That said, there's action and some lovely imagery and empowerment - so much empowerment. This book will make you grow; it did me. For that, Kristen Cashore, you've impressed me.