Fortunately all readers all the time do not like the same book. (Just finished a book of the bestsellers the past century and publishers do not favor that opinion.) Tastes and opinions differ which, of course, is a good thing.There are a handful of books though which I simply love because of the way the author uses the English language and/or the story itself and how it unfolds. Other times there's just that "indescribable something" which makes me love a book. This book which made the bestseller list in 1985, has all those reasons and some of which are simply undefinable to me.There are many social issues John Irving bravely writes about in a way to allow us, his readers, discuss how we feel about the world around us.At timesCider House Rulesspells those issues out like a big slap in the face. Issues which allow readers to discuss openly the rights and/or wrongs in living our lives. Societal issues are brought to the forefront as they reflect the happenings within these families: issues such as race, incest, sexual orientation, adoption and abortion during the period when it was completely illegal;* and when many women performed self abortions with wire hangers and numerous other dangerous methods. These issues surely included how they were affected by the "haves" and the "have nots." There are rules to live by but not all the rules are for all the same people.*NOTE: (In my opinion, it's almost illegal now with the number of U. S. state legislatures making laws which prohibit the safe legal procedure so unattainable that it is gradually becoming more and more difficult (especially for the poorest of our society) to obtain the lawful procedure of abortion.)I determined many years ago that women, as difficult a decision as it is, will self abort a fetus or have an abortion safely according to the law. And unfortunately men the majority of whom make these laws, are not the ones which are mostly affected by the laws; i.e. the majority of men do not raise children from birth to adulthood.If I made a list (I'm into lists these days) of the top 10 books I love and admire, this book would be one of the 10.John Irving is a courageous man to bring together so many social problems in America and leave our citizens (through our lawmakers) to make those difficult decisions.After reading this book which took about four days, I thought of the issues brought up by John Irving and his character Homer Wells for days on end.And thought about what to say here for days on end. It's taken three months and I still think about this book. It had a deep and lasting effect on me, one which will be with me for years to come.My only regret is I didn't read it in 1985.