I finally finishedThe Cider House Rulesthis morning; I've been working on it since mid-August. Usually if I take that long to read a book it's because the book isn't very good, I've gotten bored with it, or the writing is hard to comprehend. None of those things are true ofThe Cider House Rules. Instead I found the book to be wonderfully written with rich and complex characters (not to mention a moving and controversial storyline). I think the main reason I took so long to finish it (aside from the usual business of work and school and whatever else), was its grand scale. It's a fairly hefty book that follows one character throughout most of his life, from birth until middle age.The book centers around St. Cloud's, an orphanage in Maine where the resident obstetrician, Dr. Larch, not only delivers babies but performs abortions as well. Homer Wells, the book's protagonist, is an orphan born at the establishment. Despite three attempts at being adopted, he somehow always ends up back at St. Cloud's, and considers the place to be his true home. Larch, deciding that Homer should be "of use" if he is to stay at the orphanage, begins training Homer in obstetrical procedure. By the time Homer is in his late teens, he is a skilled obstetrician.I won't detail the rest of the events in the book, but the story follows Homer until middle age, when he eventually replaces Dr. Larch at the orphanage. The book has a definite pro-choice slant, however, I didn't feel as though it had a strong political agenda. That's what I love about good fiction: it tells the story of a few people's unique experiences in life, no matter what those experiences might be. Homer's unique experience, among other things, had to do with the moral problem of abortion. So agree or disagree with the issue as you will; it doesn't change that the book itself was moving and beautiful. I would even venture to say that it was less about abortion and more about one man's journey through life to find out what his purpose is.In some ways I feel that although reading is a solitary act, it has prepared me to be a worldly person. When we take controversial issues like abortion and put them in a novel; when we read about characters who seem as foreign to us as a martian and yet could live in our same city; when we look through the eyes of someone else as if they were our own, what we are essentially doing ishumanizingsomething. All too often we read about things from an objective, divorced point of view. It's supposed to help us make decisions. It's supposed to help us be rational. But dehumanizing something is how people have made some of the most inhumane and gruesome decisions in history. Fiction is an excellent way to make people not only consider an issue from both sides, but tofeelfor both sides as well; to create acceptance. To me, that kind of writing is more powerful than anything else will ever be. And that's what I feel like I've found inThe Cider House Rules. Is it trying to change anyone's mind? Not necessarily. But through its humanity it just might.