Sigh.... how I love this book. I'm sure I've said it a million times. This is the first book I've ever purchased. I was in the 1st grade and I bought it for like 30 cents at my school library. I was already an avid reader teehee. Anyways, over the years I re-read the book and continued to enjoy it. I decided that this month during the AYearathon Readathon I would pick this book up again because the theme was childhood favorites. I am surprised how much I remembered from the book from when I had last read it. That was over twenty years ago.What changed in my reading this time around was, instead of reading the book with the eyes of a child sympathizing with another child, I was reading it as a mother sympathizing with another parent figure. It is such a different take on the book having the experience as I do. Let me explain. Heidi's parents die when she is a toddler and she is then left in the care of her Aunt and Grandmother. They both don't have a choice and of course raise her, but it's more out of obligation than love. When Heidi is 5 and the Grandmother is no longer living, the Aunt who is rather self absorbed, decides to drop the little girl off at her paternal Grandfather's. There is no advanced notice. The Aunt just shows up one day to a chuffed and confused old man's house and announces this is your Grandchild and I'm leaving. As a parent myself I was outraged. How could you be so unloving. She demonstrates no love, she's more of a caretaker to a pet. I did my due's here you go.What I found wonderful is even though the Grandfather had not met his Granddaughter before, he was immediately taken by her inquisitive charm, her love for nature and the way she studied and learned by her own curiosity. She was loving and not spoiled and soon the Grandfather would have done anything for his Heidi.As a child I loved this book because it was a heart warming story with a happy ending. Heidi was a good girl and I could see myself in her. Although I lived on an island and she a mountain I had the same love and curiosity she did. As a mother I still see myself in Heidi. She is empathetic and selfless. She is kind and caring. It's funny because I never remember her teaching Peter to read and yet she does at the age of 9 or 10. I've always been a little "bossy" when I was growing up being the oldest of all the grandchildren and I was like their momma hen, helping the little ones read books or play games and Heidi does it so well. Now as an adult I still do that. I am a teacher and so I still am sharing characteristics with little Heidi.My final difference in adult reading this book is how much I felt for the Grandfather when Heidi was taken away. How hurt and angry he must have been. The town did nothing but gossip about the man. It's hard to know what goes on in people's own houses and people are so quick to judge small infractions in people's lives or things that people do when they are young. We all grow and mature (hopefully) and we learn the mistakes we've made in the past and do better in the future. This was Grandpa's way. He kept to himself because he knew the squawkers down in the village didn't like him, so good riddance. By the time he was raising Heidi they couldn't adjust their attitude or their ideas from past transgressions and believed him to be an awful Grandfather which he wasn't. When Heidi left it only verified their previous ideas. He was a terrible man and the girl was running away.This book made me shed happy tears many times. I found Heidi's encounters with all the people in her life to be so genuine and open. Grandfather, Grandmother, Peter, Grandmamma, the Good Doctor, Klara and even Mr. Sesemann took to Heidi immediately. They couldn't think of being away from her. She was a ray of sunshine and a sense of hope and love. They knew if Heidi was near anything was possible. This book has such good morals and all the hymns and prayers to God were not preachy, but truth. If you believe in a higher power, if you have faith and let go and allow things to happen, what you seek will eventually find you.Lovely lovely book. I own two copies of this book. My original from when I was 7, is a Watermill Classic and has a different translation than the one from the Puffin Bloom edition. The original I find better. The Swiss words are all there and it's not modernized in it's explanation. It's unabridged. The Puffin Bloom edition seems to be written in simpler words, it's more "modern". I found the name changes of the goats to be irksome for some reason. In the original Heidi's goats are little bear and little swan which I think are so sweet. It also matches their coat colors. In the Puffin edition they are Daisy and Dusky. WHY!?! They also change the Alm Uncle to Alp Uncle and Klara's name is spelled with a C instead. I don't know what or why things change in different translations, but I enjoyed the older version better. I will keep this edition because it is beautiful, but with any re-reads I'll dig up my coverless 1st grade edition.If you haven't picked up this children's classic, you must. It is a very fast read and such a moving story.