This was one of those rare books which instilled in me the gift of imagination, and taught me how to dream...I believe it requires great skill to weave magic for generations, armed with nothing but a simple, heart touching plot and oodles of feel-good-factor! AndJohanna Sypriis one such skilled author.The story flows thus: Heidi, an orphaned little girl, goes to live in the Alps with her grandfather. She is the personification of innocence and gaiety. Living on goat milk, and grazing the herds with her friend Peter gives her life a sense of completion. However, tragedy soon falls when she is taken away to live in the city of Frankfurt and act as a companion to an older, richer invalid girl called Clara. Heidi loves Clara, but she is a bird which cannot be caged. She is the essence of the mountain air which flows through the valleys and touches all, but can not be tamed. Soon she grows tired of city live, and falls terribly sick...Does Heidi get better? Does she manage to return to her grandfather, and the mountains? If so, what happens to Clara? Even now, if I chance upon the book, although I know the story over and out, I cant stop feeling anxious to read it till the end...Johanna Spyridoes not simply write the book, she paints scenes of sheer magnificence in each page...MemoriesI had got this book as a gift from my father, and though second hand, it was a hardbound imported edition, and in wonderful condition(not the tattered and torn variety). I remember feeling ecstatic, because I had already fallen in love with the animated series which used to come on TV. It soon became my favourite book. I took it everywhere... to the dinner table, to sleep, to school, and even if I had two minutes of spare time, I used to turn the pages over, feeling warm inside. It was an inexplicable happiness... the pages were of a hard, stiff, and superior quality, but they were yellowing, as the edition was quite old... It used to exude such a wonderful smell... I guess all those who love books truly will know what I am talking about... It is the most intoxicating smell in the entire world... The smell of old volumes... And inside the pages, I had a world of my own...I'm glad I have parents who are both voracious readers, so that i grew up treating books as my best friends... But I also needed books like these to make me fall in love with the art of story-telling!