Not my first work by Asimov but I was told that this trilogy, together with his robot stories (that I've read), are his finest work and some of the most important works in science fiction. I now understand why.Asimov does not only have an extremely amiable writing style, he is a master in phrasing complex matter in a simple, unassuming way that immediately transports you tens of thousands of years into the future. Any concept, no matter how alien to us, becomes "normal" within only a few lines.In this particular case we start out during the time of the Galactic Empire - humanity has spread across the universe but as with any great civilisation, stagnation sets in and with it, doom. A scientist has a mathematical way of predicting the future and not only predicts the fall of the Empire but also how long the ensuing "dark ages" will last.Before that backdrop, there are 5 parts of this novel:- The Psychohistorians- The Encyclopedists- The Mayors- The Traders- The Merchant PrincesThe first part shows the aforementioned scientist and the outrage caused by his calculations as well as his measures to ensure that his plan can proceed. His plan, simply put, is to shorten the period of the "dark ages" (from the predicted 30.000 to 1.000 years).The second takes place 50 years later when the so-called Enyclopedia Galactica (a collection of all the knowledge of the doomed Galactic Empire) is already under way but politics interfere with progress. However, to me, that is in no way the worst. Far worse is the discovery that so many supposedly studied people content themselves with reading ancient texts, comparing them, never researching for themselves, questioning what they are taught/told, even if they have the opportunity. In short: laziness and complacency is spreading which is exactly what is bringing down the entire Empire and therefore endangers the original plan/reason for the Foundation.The third story takes place yet another 30 years in the future and here is where I disagree with the author. You see, in only 30 years technology has become a religion with technicians and maintenance personal being "priests". Now, I do believe that many people nowadays are ignorant as to how certain technological achievements work and therefore I do not doubt that could happen in the future too. However, 30 years to go from technology used by everyone (even if not understood), to being worshipped as something divine?! And what is more, it's not just ignorant people worshipping, the men being educated at the Foundation's main seat, Terminus, actually believe that their toolbox is a collection of holy artifacts. *bangs head against the wall*Nope, not buying it, not in such a short amount of time.This is also where I started doubting the Foundation. Before, I thought it was a great idea to preserve technology and shorten the "dark ages" but I despise religion and this one is no different.The fourth story takes place 55 years after the third (135 years after the start of the book) and introduces the traders that bring technology to the far corners of the galaxy in order to expand the influence of the Foundation (financial and political). The religious part of the movement is retreating, in many circles (especially amongst the traders) even frowned upon. Naturally, this story is therefore full of political intrigue since some worlds refuse to enslave themselves by accepting to depend upon Foundation's technology. However, as we are told within this story:"Never let your sense of morals prevent you from doing what is right!"And I hope I'm not the only one seeing the Foundation as a bully by this point.The fifth and final story takes place 155 years after the start of the novel and is about a trader being sent out into a far corner of space where Foundation ships mysteriously keep disappearing. It is believed that another world has technological growth, which puts the powerful position of the Foundation in jeopardy. Does the Empire still exist? Is there a new power? Again, we have political intrigue on Terminus (still Foundation's headquarters/home world) but also another protagonist that solves problems with wit instead of brutal force.The main theme throughout the book seems to be that violence is not the answer. Knowledge, if used correctly, is a far better weapon. I'm not sure it is morally better though. I get where Asimov is coming from, especially considering that he wrote/published this in 1951 (consider the American political climate back then!), but what we see in these stories has me thinking if the Foundation's way really is better.I deliberately left the rest of the novel shrouded because giving away too much would ruin the story (except that I will say there was another pocket of scientists much like the ones that started the Foundation on Terminus but installed on the other end of the galaxy and I'm already curious how that will play out). It's in no way a book that is supposed to be as thrilling as an action movie or horror book. Instead, there is a lot of social exploration in a very clever and accessible way, yet never preachy or boring or too theoretical.One last comment about Scott Brick, the narrator of my audio edition - he is fantastic. Somehow seemingly stoic but engaging at the same time. Talk about perfect combination.No surprise this trilogy (I assume at this point that the other two novels will be of the same quality) is so well-known and well-liked. They are ground-breaking books on several fronts, not least of which on the so-called psycho-history (the mathematical process with which to predict the future).