"In a moment I knew what had happened. I had slept and the bitterness of death came over my soul."H.G. Wells is such a good writer. Not only does he have an amazing imagination that carries him to impossible places, but he is very skilled at writing. The descriptions in this book are absolutely stunning.The book deals with a British, upper-class white man who has invented a time machine telling all his cronies about it in the smoking-room. He has traveled to the year 802701, and you have to admire Wells for not making the classic mistake of setting the future too close to the present. I'm certain this story will have impact for millenia to come due to his far-reaching decision.In the year 802701, there are the kind, playful, gentle child-like people who live on the surface of the planet: the Eloi. The Time Traveller goes on and on and on about how humanity is going to kill itself by becoming "too safe" and "too peaceful"... something I am rather doubtful about happening, BUT ANYWAY, there's also a dark secret lurking in the year 802701, and the Time Traveller gets his first glimpse of it when his Time Machine mysteriously vanishes. Who has taken it and why? Can he ever get it back?"At once, like a lash across the face, came the possibility of losing my own age, of being left helpless in this strange new world. The bare thought of it was an actual physical sensation. I could feel it grip me at the throat and stop my breathing."Of course there are missteps in here, things that will have you shaking your head like comparing "savages" to animals, and the threat of COMMUNISM(!) that actually had me laughing out loud."Looking round, with a sudden thought, from a terrace on which I rested for a while, I realised that there were no small houses to be seen. Apparently, the single house, and possibly event the household, had vanished. Here and there among the greenery were palace-like buildings, but the house and the cottage, which form such characteristic features of our own English landscape, had disappeared.'Communism,' said I to myself."LOL LOL LOL He thinks the weak, gentle, friendly people of the upper earth are indolent."They spent all of their time in playing gently, in bathing in the river, in making love in a half-playful fashion, in eating fruit and sleeping. I could not see how things were kept going."And he's like, "Those fucking communists!" LOL LOL LOL I couldn't stop laughing. *wipes eyes*Okay. ANYWAY, the book is good. Short, gripping, with suspense and excitement - paired with Wells exquisite writing.Here's him describing what travelling through time feels like:"I am afraid I cannot convey the peculiar sensations of time travelling. They are excessively unpleasant. There is a feeling exactly like that one has upon a switchback - of a helpless headlong motion! I felt the same horrible anticipation, too, of an imminent smash. As I put on pace, night followed day like the flapping of a black wing. The dim suggestion of the laboratory seemed presently to fall away from me, and I saw the sun hopping swiftly across the sky, leaping it every minute, and every minute marking a day. I supposed the laboratory had been destroyed, and I had come into the open air. I had a dim impression of scaffolding, but I was already going too fast to be conscious of any moving things. The slowest snail that ever crawled dashed by too fast for me. The twinkling succession of darkness and light was excessively painful to the eye. Then, in the intermittent darknesses, I saw the moon spinning swiftly through her quarters from new to full, and had a faint glimpse of the circling stars. Presently, as I went on, still gaining velocity, the palpitation of night and day merged into one continuous greyness: the sky took on a wonderful deepness of blue, a splendid luminous colour like that of early twilight; the jerking sun became a streak of fire, a brilliant arch, in space, the moon a fainter fluctuating band; and I could see nothing of the stars, save now and then a brighter circle flickering in the blue."I don't know about you, but I could read Wells all day. It's so pretty.My 1978 copy of this book was literally falling apart in my hands as I was reading this. Oh, well, I'm sure it's free on Kindle.Tl;dr - Not too long, full of amazing writing, this book is truly transporting. Wells is good at building suspense and creeping you out. He also delivers on some excellent descriptive passages. If he is a little misguided on his ideas about the future, that can be forgiven. It sure is entertaining reading, and understandable why this has been a classic."I suppose a suicide who holds a pistol to his skull feels much the same wonder at what will come next as I felt then."BOOKS THIS REMINDED ME OF:Gulliver's TravelsThe SparrowGroup-Read with my Pantsless Friends. :)