"Well, we should have been reading Ellison anyway.""But we weren't.""Who would expect science fiction over such a classic? I mean, really.""Doesn't change thatyou screwed up.""I'm just saying, Ellison is a fine writer. That's all.""AndI'msaying; Did you read the right book this time?"--glowers-- "It has a 'The' at the front and everything.""Ok then.""Ok."......"You didn't read theillustrated children's book, right?""I hate you.""Whatever, you're up. Go on."*speaker steps up to podium to speak*Greetings Pantsless lads and ladies,This month's non-crunchy classic,TheTime Machineby H.G. Wells, is about a tourist.Thattourist. You know the one. The one no one not on the tourist board wants in their country. The one who, after spending a few scant days in a new place, thinks himself an expert on everything there is to know about that country. He knows their ills and their woes. Their joys and their struggles. He has completely absorbed all the decades of nuance contained within their social and economic structure. And of course, he is happy to tell you all about it. Our time traveler is such a tourist. That his travels are to the future changes little."Let me tell you about your history of oppression of the labour class," he says. "Let me tell you about the vast underground network of structures that exist in your country. I know because I saw some empty wells and a couple of towers in the distance." "Let me tell you why you turned to cannibalism. Oh, I can tell because I saw some meat on a table, so it must be human flesh." "Let me disrupt your sleep by storming through your sleeping area at night because what I need is more important than your rest." Ok, he didn't say that last one. His actions did though.For I am naturally inventive, as you know.His actions. Oh, his actions. The tourist badgers people constantly, getting frustrated when the native peoples do not allow him to always be the center of attention. He claims some great conspiracy when his vehicle gets towed after he just parks it in the middle of the yard. He invades people's workplaces and homes uninvited.Heburns downthe sacred forest.And then... to top it all off, he assaults the native citizens. Those poor, legally blind Morlocks who get by mostly on touch. He just beats them. He invades their homes, and when they try to figure out who he is (by touch, because they can't see well), he kicks and punches them. Then when they are fleeing for their lives from the fire he started, he kills them. This tourist spends a few days in a new country and decides it is ok to murder the native people! It's sickening, really.Weena I had resolved to bring with me to our own time.If all of that wasn't bad enough, he even had plans to lure one of the local woman back home with him. Despicable. This tourist is too dumb to bring a camera on a trip to a new land. Too dumb to bring a pencil and paper even though he calls himself a scientist. But he thinks one of the native citizens would be better off with him. And of course, through it all, he claims his own virtue.I was almost moved to begin a massacre of the helpless abominations about me, but I contained myself.As if not being a mass-murderer is somehow a virtue. Perhaps to this worst of all tourists, it is. But for the rest of us, not assaulting strangers is a given. And so we must prevent such tourists from coming to our country! We must protect our forests! We must protect our defenseless! We must build a wall. A wall in time! A time wall! A...*speaker's friend rushes up and drags him off the stage**friend whispering furiously in his ear* "This is a book club. It's all fiction. What iswrongwith you?"*after a moment of confusion, the audience gets up for snacks before the next round of reviews from these pantsless readers:*Evgeny,Jeff,Carmen,Ashley,Dan 2.skull,Erin, andJess (once she finishes).