4/18/19 - So I listened to this one again and wasn't quite as impressed as I have been in the past. Certain things kind of annoyed me this time around but it was still fun to revisit the beginning of this series.Buddy read starting December 29 withSarah,Shelly,Evgeny,Karly,Jess,Allison,Catherine&amp;Monty Cupcake.Discussion Thread2014 Review:This review can also be found atCarole's Random Life.5 Stars!When I saw that some of my friends on Goodreads were getting a buddy read of this book organized, I jumped at the chance to join. I don't really know why I love this book so much. It actually has a few problems and I see them but I just don't care. I love this book anyway despite all of its flaws. This was actually the 4th time that I have read this book. Any book that I can enjoy after reading 4 times deserves 5 stars in my opinion.I first started reading these books before the HBO series was produced. When I first saw the show, I remember thinking that many of the actors seemed wrong for the characters that I had created in my mind. I found it amusing on this re-read of the book all I could think about were the television characters. I would like to warn anyone that decides to read these books because they like the television series that they are really two very different things. The first season of the show does follow this book pretty well but after that they really are two different stories that just happen to share the same characters.As I mentioned earlier, I did see some problems with this book. The writing isn't spectacular by any stretch. The writing seems overly simple to me. I really wished that the book focused on the exciting things going on in Sookie's life not on everyday things like cleaning. I sometimes feel like a total pig as I look around my messy house and read about Sookie cleaning hers. I really don't want to hear about cleaning. I really didn't feel a whole lot of chemistry going on between Bill and Sookie either. When they started saying that they loved each other, I thought it was a bit sudden and to be honest I just didn't see it myself. This book also seemed a bit dated to me. When Sookie is getting ready for Bill to come over, she puts her hair up in a banana clip. I remember wearing a banana clip in my hair during the late 80's and very early 90's but I don't think anyone was wearing them in 2001.Despite these problems, I still can find so much to love inside of this book. I fell in love with characters a long time ago and I understand that this re-read of the book was probably heavily influence by that. I really like Sookie. I like that she thinks of her telepathy as a disability instead of the superpower most people would consider it to be. As you read the book, you realize how horrible it really would be to be able to read other people's minds. Sookie goes through a lot in this book and I really thought she handled most things quite well. She does require saving from time to time but she isn't afraid to jump into dangerous situations either.I thought that the scenes with Eric were wonderful in this book. I am very partial to Eric. I can't help it and I really don't want to. Sam was great in this book but I did want to slap him for finally noticing Sookie after Bill shows an interest. I thought it was very realistic because people do this all the time but I still wanted to slap him because I hate it when this happens. I really had a good time reading about all of these characters and just remembering how these books sucked me into their world years ago. I do think that some of the later books in the series are stronger than this one.I would recommend this book to others with the explanation that they are quite different from the HBO series. This book is really a quick and easy read that can be a lot of fun. This book is really just candy in book form. Nothing serious, nothing substantial, but a whole lot of fun.My insightful 2011 review:I enjoyed this book. It was a quick, easy, and fun read. I am interested in seeing the HBO series after reading this book.