Let's get one thing straight...Sookie Stackhouse is no Bella Swan. You may have read the myriad reviews that list the similarities between Charlaine Harris's novels and the Twilight Saga and I can assure you that most of them are true. Harris refers to her vampires 'glowing', Bill drinks synthetic blood, Sookie can read minds...the list goes on and on.But after finishing this book, what I can assure you is that in so many ways these books are so completely different that they bear no comparison. The Sookie Stackhouse novels are fun and action-packed where Twilight is contemplative with a more restrained plot. Neither one is better...they're just different.What I enjoyed so much about Dead Until Dark is the incredible, break-neck pace the plot moved along at. This was like watching a blockbuster movie and truly didn't take much more time than that to read. Harris threads the hooks of the story expertly. When you get to the end of a chapter, she'll write something to stop your heart dead in your chest. You literally HAVE to turn the page to find out more.The other major strength of this novel is Sookie. She is one of the most fun characters. She's kooky, she's kick-ass and I loved being able to step right into her mind. I would've taken tough-stuff Sookie over Bella any day.But Bill is not comparable to Edward. He's HOT and he oozes that sexy bad-guy image but I just don't know if I 100% believes he loves Sookie. I know his character is supposed to be stiff and uncommunicative but I did find it a challenge to warm to him as much as I have done with other romantic heroes. He doesn't really have the 'swoon factor' Edward does.I will absolutely continue to read this series with great pleasure. I do want to know what happens with Sookie...I secretly hopes she shacks up with Sam. Is that too much to ask?Readers should be warned that this novel is quite violent. It also discusses issues that some could find disturbing and upsetting (incest etc). For more conservative readers, please be aware there are multiple explicit love scenes.I would certainly recommend this book to Twilight fans looking for an enjoyable vampire series.