This is the book that I would answer if I were hypothetically asked what book could have single-handedly become the reason that my relationship would ever fall apart. More so thanInfinite Jestor Proust, other examples of books that have consumed or are consuming my life in one way or another. I didn't realize I had a reading problem until I realized that my boyfriend was unpacking around me; literally unpacking boxes right from under my feet - while I sat there and turned the pages. Or when I realized the house was suddenly quiet because he had taken the dogs out for a walk. He could have lit his face on fire and I'm not entirely sure I would have even noticed. Even while I was helping with the moving, or at work doing work-y types of things - I was usually thinking about Middlemarch. So, people in my daily life? The glazed look on my face, all of the, "I'm sorry, what did you say"'s? It was because of this book. And there's not even a good reason for that.Infinite Jest is the kind of book that it seems okay to let the rest of your life fall apart around you as you read it. It seems appropriate to become one ofthosepeople while reading Infinite Jest. It lends itself to that sort of behavior. But George Eliot? Middlemarch? Pshaw! I would have said before I read it. Are you kidding me? Get a life, woman!But, dude. I totally became that person. Admitting there is a problem is the first step to seeking help. So I'm here. Seeking help.Just like Infinite Jest it's a book that could be re-read numerous times and you'd probably get something different out of it each time. That Eliot was a whip-smart woman, and I bemoan the fact that I just don't know enough about history at times to keep up with a brain like hers. The notes in the end were exceptionally helpful, though annoying at times when they pointed out chronological mistakes - like the characters couldn't possibly have known about a certain popular book yet because in the real world it hadn't been published yet during the time in which the story was to take place. Whoops! I don't need to know those sorts of things, but thanks anyway.If you don't like details about every little thing, you won't like this book. There's so much detail it makes the whaling chapters in Moby Dick sound almost appealing. (Never mind, I just got over it. Whew.) I can't imagine writing a book like this, just like I couldn't imagine David Foster Wallace writing a book like Infinite Jest. The amount of time, and energy - holy cats, the psychic energy that must have gone into putting down so much information that covered such a wide variety of topics - it makes me need a nap just to process it.Middlemarch - the 19th-century answer to Infinite Jest? Hmm.Highlight: Oh dear, I just found out that there was a 1994 TV version of the story - with Rufus Sewell. You know how most women are all ga-ga over Colin Firth and none of them can really explain why? I'm that way about Rufus Sewell.He's the dreamboat in the red coat. Just in case anyone thought I was all drooly-cup over the old guy.