Whenever I buy a book for someone as a gift I always include a bookmark, its one of those things I inherited from my parents. As a result of which, whenever I see some nice or quirky or unusual bookmarks I buy them.A few years ago I bought about ten long metal markers on which were engraved the 50 books one 'ought to have read'. Looking down the list I saw this one and ticked it off as one I had read, though I didn't remember it very well. Then a few months ago my book-club opted to read it. As I began to read three things happened. Firstly, I realized I had never read it before, secondly I was blown away by it and thus thirdly I wholeheartedly realize why it is engraved on that bookmark.The story is simply told. A wrestling hero in West Africa rules the roost of his home and village and his reputation keeps him godlike almost in everyone's regard. Then he accidentally kills one of his clan and he must go into exile for a few years. When he returns all has changed and he finds it impossible to regain his previous position. The colonial powers and the 'attached missionaries' have taken up the ruling status and, cut adrift from everything he was and stood for, Okonkwo follows his world's example and 'falls apart'.That is the story but Achebe takes this and creates something unimaginably beautiful. His hero is a bully, vicious, impatient and arrogant. He is cruel and heartless and totally unattractive and yet, and yet, Achebe succeeds in making you care for him and feel the agony of his confusion as the world he knew and dominated is swept aside by a crass disregard for the history and traditions by the 'enlightened colonial rulers'.Three short quotations to intimate the gift of Achebe.'anxiety mounted in every heart that heaved on a bamboo bed that night'Say that out loud and deny that there is an extraordinary rhythm to that sentence. It captures beautifully and simply the doom-laden drum beat that Achebe had said was echoing through the jungle throughout that scene. In the hand of a true poet nothing need be explicit.'He felt a relief within as the hymn poured into his parched soul. The words were like the drops of frozen rain melting on the dry plate of the panting earth. Nwoye's callow mind was greatly puzzled.Here Achebe, again understated, bringing home the idea of the people moulded and created from the land. That close link with the land which those who were coming to 'help them' were supremely failing to understand. Alien rites and experiences unexplained but imposed would wreak havoc unless couched in the terms of the world in which their hearer lived and grew.And finally'Umuofia was like a startled animal with ears erect, sniffing the silent, ominous air and not knowing which was to run.'I just found the image itself amazing. The freedom Achebe uses here is one which many writers might shy from now in fear of being misinterpreted or misunderstood. Achebe's authorial voice simply impressed me here. He is writing out of the lived experience of his characters and we choose to sit on the sidelines and observe or enter in and begin to sense a little of their pain.As a middle class brit in 21st Century Uk I can never feel the agony or devastation of Okonkwo, Chinua Achebe manages to make me somewhat ashamed that that is the case and for that I acknowledge his amazing skill and thank him for it.