There has been rarely a fictional work of such complexity when the focal point is colonisation. Most books are either firmly convinced that the traditional ways were the best, or they firmly believe that colonisation was the best thing ever to happen, depending on the author's perspective. But Achebe goes far deeper than that, bringing out the nuances of the good and bad aspects of both sides.This is a brilliant book, written in the oral tradition of African stories and legends. I generally don't like that kind of narrative, but it really suits this book. Achebe is a great writer and I really enjoyed the very subtle sarcasm against malpractices by both African and European cultures. I also love the fact that he focused so strongly on the rampant sexism.Okonkwo is the protagonist. He is arrogant, warmongering, sexist, and in short, a brute. He is not a sympathetic character. He considers no one else's dignity except his own. In the end, when colonisation happened, he too lost his dignity and his life. His contempt for women is deep-rooted and one of the questions I asked myself was whether if he had been "more like a woman", he might not have been a better person overall and avoided his ultimate fate.One of the finest things aboutThings Fall Apartis how immersed I got into the book. It was a wonderful story and it was also beautifully detailed in all aspects of Igbo life. Every single page told a story, and deepened my understanding of this culture. Like with everything else, it had the bad and the good. The question remains, and will never be answered: What kind of progress would have been made with women's rights and eliminating superstition without the missionaries forcing a change in the culture? After all, all they did was to substitute one kind of misogyny and superstition with another.As a depiction of colonisation, this is one of the best books I have read. The gradual changes to society, the flocking of the disenfranchised people to the church, and the government support offered to the church members against the tribes all contributed to the ultimate fallout. Before one knew it, things had changed and most people would be hard put to actually pinpoint the time when it happened. As Desmond Tutu so aptly put it:When the missionaries came to Africa they had the Bible and we had the land. They said 'Let us pray.' We closed our eyes. When we opened them we had the Bible and they had the land.That is what happened in this story too.