Before returning to Clanton Mississippi and Ford County, I took some time to refresh myself of my first journey here, to see where the Grisham journey had its humble roots. While it is likely this novel is not the traditional 'must-read' before diving into SYCAMORE ROW, I chose to remember the powerful novel that Grisham admits barely made a blip on the radar until after THE FIRM pushed him to the top of all the reading lists. This is a wonderful book that introduces readers to a Mississippi where desegregation is no more than a word in the dictionary. When the brutal rape of a 10 year old black girl makes small ripples amongst the vast majority of Ford County's white population, the townsfolk continue with life as usual, leaving the black population to mourn the injustice. All, that is, but Carl-Lee Haley, father of the victim. The two white men accused of the rape are charged and the legal process begins its slow march. When Haley takes things into his own hands and shoots both men while they are in the courthouse, the ripples turn to tidal waves, dividing the town along racial lines. After Jake Brigance, town lawyer and admitted liberal, agrees to take the case, all eyes are on him and how he will argue a case that appears cut and dry. Using an insanity angle, Brigance tries to sway popular opinion in a county where black rights are all but nil. This small county soon has the eyes of the entire country as support on both sides heightens. It is only when the Klan begin enacting their own form of justice that violence and retribution stain the Mississippi legal process. Brigance begins building a defence, using the meagre $900 offered to him while his family chooses to protect themselves when he refuses to follow. Using an odd patchwork legal team whose interest in the case outweighs their desire for payment, Brigance brings the case forward. Before a jury of his peers, Haley is presented as a grieving father and man whose mind was completely altered by the acts of two drug addicts. As the city is torn apart, Brigance can only hope that justice is truly colour-blind in the racist south. Grisham planted the seed of legal literary excellence with this novel and it should be required reading for the legal thriller fanatic.Grisham does so much in this novel on so many levels. From addressing the ne'er-spoken race divide in the South as it relates to legal equity to the nuances of courtroom thrillers for which he will become famous, to the formulaic storyline of the lawyer swimming against the tide on the side of justice all issues come out front and centre throughout the novel. Grisham tackles all these as a complete unknown in the literary field and does not stray away from strong social commentary throughout. While I will admit my mind flashed to the wonderfully done film based on the novel throughout the reading, I could see and feel the characters develop on the page and take life. Without throwing punches, Grisham dispels the rumours that desegregation stopped the race riots and that all is well throughout the country. Speaking about what he knows best--the law and Mississippi--Grisham brings the reader into the fold and captures them with riveting narration, stellar legal description, and a set of characters whose perfection within the story has them fit like the proverbial glove. This was surely the novel that got the Grisham craze started and, to me, proves to be one of his timeless classics.As an added aside, I cannot leave this review without presenting what may seem like quite the far-fetched claim. As I listened to the audiobook version of this novel, I could not help but wonder if Grisham sought to create a newer version of the Harpee Lee classic, To Kill a Mockingbird, bringing the injustice of the law between the races to the forefront. While Brigance is no Atticus Finch, this parallel cannot be disregarded as the reader sees the tension building and the complete despair of the defence counsel as the evidence pours forward. While I am almost certain Grisham would deny its connection, the reader who has taken the time to read both will surely see some similarities in both. Have things changed much since 1960? Since 1989? Surely some steps have been made in this regard, but I would venture to say that the two novels, which act as strong social commentaries, are not far off from what is still going on.Kudos, Mr. Grisham, for allowing me such a raw glimpse into the realm of justice in the South and not candy coating it in the least. Onward to SYCAMORE ROW... with a plethora of characters in my quiver and a passion for Ford County once again!