John Grisham is always a favorite go-to for fast-paced, engaging storytelling that pulls you through, chapter by chapter, page by page, clear up until you reach the end. This was a great depiction of race tensions, and the good, bad and ugly of 1980s Southern life. The author is well suited to portray the South both sympathetically while at the same time never shying away from its more shameful aspects.Carl Lee Hailey's young daughter, who happens to be black, is brutally raped and left for dead by two savage thugs, who happen to be white. The thugs meet their maker after Carl Lee goes all Mississippi justice on their hind ends in the middle of the courthouse right after an arraignment. The small town of Clanton erupts into pandemonium as his capital murder trial draws near and then finally gets underway.Clanton is center stage for a colorful array of caricatures: the frat boy hot shot defense lawyer and his sorority sister wife; the drunken blue blood mentor; the big city Memphis millionaire pimp and his scummy Midwestern hired gun; the ambitious smug D.A.; the do-gooder Northerner law clerk; and the list goes on.The story proceeds effortlessly: serve, bump, set, spike.Once again, politically correct types bemoan the realities of the South, including "excessive use of the 'N' word" in this book. Hating the South is still the last acceptable prejudice allowed in this country. I don't like the N word either, but it was commonplace in Mississippi even through the 80s, like it or not. And in this story it happened to be directly relevant to depicting the prevalent perspectives and prejudices in Ford County. I still do not understand how there are so many complaints about that word when you'll almost never hear complaints about the F word or other profanity from any number of other authors. I, for one, love Grishambecausehe scarcely uses any profanity in any of his books. We should watch not to be hypocritically and self-righteously all about censorship only when something doesn't suit our particular fancy.This was as good a representation of Grisham's work as there is. I felt like I was there on the front lines at an exciting trial where the stakes were high and the pressure continued to build and build clear up until the very last moment.