"What does the brain matter compared with the heart?"so states one of the last lines in this short, brilliant novel, a thought -provoking book, life is temporary after all. This phrase is about Mr. Richard Dalloway who works for the government in the early 1920's in London, England. Clarissa Dalloway's nice, steady husband, rather ordinary, he will never be a member of the prestigious cabinet, nevertheless she loves him, he reciprocates that emotion...she knows, but he's much too embarrassed to verbalize , showing it by giving wonderful flowers, yet there is something missing in her existence, she has a great husband, a beautiful, dutiful daughter Elizabeth 18, devoted to her father, a good home. She, while not pretty at 52, but attractive , gives glamorous, grand parties to her many friends and relatives, important people in society mostly. The movers and shakers in the nation, the perfect hostess, elegant, calm, sophisticated, always says the right thing to others, still she feels bored, needing excitement. Clarissa's mind constantly wanders, thinking and pondering, has she chosen the right path. The happy memories of the past, thirty years ago...of the frightening Peter her first love, wild Sally Seton, the best friend Clarissa ever had, so fearless, outrageous and amusing, everyone liked, Peter Walsh is coming back from India, a man she could have married, nothing dull about him, an unstable but always vibrant, her former lover, will be at the party ( not very successful), rich Sally also, Mrs . Dalloway is uneasy. The narrative of the book takes place in just one day, the ubiquitous giant Big Ben clock, sounds the alarm, striking often, every hour, and more, as time flows by reminding her not only the party is near but life is limited, should not waste it, in idle dreams, live in the present, be content, this crazy, unpredictable, cold world...will not continue forever, not last. Virginia Woolf's most popular novel, still has dark aspects, the trying to forget , not possible...set a few years after the end of hostilities. A classic, from another era.vast sufferings of World War 1 soldiers, is vaguely mentioned ( except for one character), the English