What a beautiful way to end my reading year!And that ending -THE PLOTThe stars were laid out like worlds or like ideas, uncountable as the trees in a forest or the leaves on a treeA whimsical and atmospheric story which follows the adventures of an eighteen year old,Tristran Thorn,as he ventures out into the magical world of faerie-a world which borders his own little town, Wall. And why you ask did he undertake such a journey? Well, it's very simple. He did it for love.Stupid, blind, nauseating love.On his journey to retrieve a fallen star which his love, Victoria, demands in exchange for whatever he desires, Tristran encounters a lot of people, creatures, magical beings and objects, and a life changing truth.MY THOUGHTSThis book has one of the best prose I've read this year,and I am completely blown away by the splendor of Neil Gaiman's writing. From the very first page, I knew I and Neil Gaiman's books were meant to be, because it's not possible that the magnificence and artfulness of his word-weaving skills end with this book. It's not even remotely possible. And so I've decided to feed myself with his books come 2016.The writing was so scenic,and if I ever needed any confirmation of the power of words and their ability to create beautiful motion pictures in the mind, this book just did an amazing job of reaffirming that fact. And believe me, the easiness of the delivery of this picturesque tale had nothing, absolutely nothing to do with me having watched the movie already. I was making a movie of my own the whole time.HOW I FEEL ABOUT NEIL GAIMANWHAT BITESTristran.Tristran is a born fool, and a consistent one at that.He offered me nothing more than comedic relief. Imagine this: Tristran asks Victoria for a kiss, and for her hand in marriage. Yes, it's the silliest thing ever, considering he doesn't even know her that well, but, you'd think that for someone who the world revolves around, who is the epitome of beauty and sweetness, courtesy and kindness, or even tact, wouldn't be foreign traits. You'd think they'd be polite and gentle even if they don't feel the same way. But what does Victoria say?Marry you? she repeated, incredulously. And why ever should I marry you, Tristran Thorn? What could you give me?STRIKE ONEBut Tristran doesn't relent. He promises her treasures and jewels from Africa and India -and something about the Nile. I couldn't be bothered to remember what. He says he'd travel the world for her. And my dear Vicky says:Be that as it may, little shop-boy and farm-boy, I shall not kiss you; neither shall I marry you.STRIKE TWOBUT TRISTRAN LIKE I SAID IS A CONSISTENT BORN FOOL. But now he graduates from a consistent born fool into a groveler with no atom of dignity or self preservation. He's relentless in his declarations of love, so she sends him after a fallen star. A fallen star? Because you are who?STRIKE THREEBut my good man Tristran, agrees to go after it, agrees to go in search of the star in a land no one in Wall had ever dared to cross, except on the one market day when interactions between both worlds were allowed. So off goes Tristran through the gap in the wall that separates the two worlds: Faerie and human.MEI couldn't help but wonder at certain points, Is Tristran being portrayed as a caricature of something? I doubted the seriousness of his character. I laughed at his foolishness. And if I was giving ratings based on his character alone, this book would have been a two star for me. I mean everytime he opened his mouth I was just like:I dare youGo on, say it. Just try saying it.But ultimately, the rest of the characterization was splendid and I loved this story. And I couldn't have asked for a more enchanting or better ending. I guess that's it, goodbye to 2015.