I've spent a semester getting through this massive volume (for a class, I should say), and I figure I'll do mini-reviews for each novel rather than anything similarly massive. So let's give it a whirl.Sense and Sensibility:This is actually the only Austen novel I've read on multiple occasions, so I have a bit more familiarity with it than any of the other five. This is, in my humble opinion, a fairly dark novel for Austen. Marianne's melodrama is of course frequently mocked, but Elinor's resignation and the story of the Elizas present really bleak insights into Austen's imagination. S&amp;S is perhaps the least laught-out-loud funny of Austen's oeuvre, but the relationship between Elinor and Marianne is one of the most fascinating (and eroticized) female-female interactions among all of her novels. Willoughby, despite his profligate nature, is really hot--especially in Emma Thompson's film adaptation, so that alone should make you want to read/see this! No, but seriously, S&amp;S is strangely close to my heart, perhaps because of that strong sisterly bond, and the female-centered communities of the novel.Pride and Prejudice:What can I say about P&amp;P that hasn't been said before? It's my favorite Austen novel, with my favorite heroine (Elizabeth) and hero (Darcy), along with a wonderful supporting cast (the Bennets, Mr. Bingley, Lady Catherine de Bourgh, Mr. Collins, Charlotte Lucas). The humor is all there, the emotion rings true, the characters are all complex and imaginable while you're reading. Quite simply one of the very best novels of English literary history.Mansfield Park:I won't belabor this part, because "MP" is really truly my least favorite among the novels. The writing is good, the plot is complex, but Fanny Price is absolutely insufferable. If this book had been about Mary Crawford, I might have enjoyed it. The Crawfords are fabulous characters, and there are fascinating questions of subversion in the novel--but this is also the most evident text in which Austen deliberately upholds the status quo, even after suggesting alternatives to it (through the Crawfords, Mr. Yates, even Fanny's brief challenge to the slave trade). Sir Thomas Bertram is Patriarch Supreme, and he ensures that conservatism wins in the end. This is a bit of an unpopular opinion, but for a legitimately good adaptation of this novel, see Patricia Rozema's 1999 film version--it's absolutely wonderful. A real feminist update, and it even features Miss Honey from "Matilda" as Mary Crawford!Emma:After P&amp;P, this is my second-favorite Austen novel. Emma may be self-centered and manipulative, but she's one of Austen's only flawed characters that we genuinely sympathize with. And I think she's a quite welcome change between the passive, troubled heroines (Catherine, Fanny, Anne, Elinor) and the more vivacious ones (Elizabeth, Marianne)--she's a joy to read. This is also one of the very funniest of Austen's works--I found myself chuckling or openly guffawing almost constantly while reading. Great cast of characters--Emma herself, of course, along with Mr. Woodhouse, Jane Fairfax, the Bates (ha!), and arguably the gayest character--Frank Churchill-in her body of work. Furthermore, I think the resolutions presented here are the most developed and mature of her career--because she actually takes the time to allow them to develop, rather than simply tying everything up neatly in the final pages. Emma is a really lovely novel, and of course, if you didn't know that Clueless is a modernized adaptation of it, now's your chance to rewatch it with that in mind.Northanger Abbey:Features much of Austen's always-wonderful wit, but I think it's pretty self-evident that this is a first novel, and if you've read the juvenilia, I think you'll recognize much of that exuberant naivete bleeding over into "Northanger." While the humor was all there, my issue with the novel was that I had little sympathy for any of the characters. Catherine, as the opening line suggests, is not much of a heroine--she's bumbling, easily manipulated, excitable, and simply not complex enough for me to truly identify with her. Henry Tilney is, well, kind of a douchebag. A classic example of the "Educating Jane" theme that frequently runs through her novels, because Henry (perhaps like many Austen heroes) becomes a father figure for Catherine. I found that pretty infuriating. Strangely enough, though, I think "Northanger" is possibly Austen's most (I use this term loosely) 'postmodern' texts, because of the novel's challenge to so-termed master narratives, particularly of the Gothic. So I found that pretty fascinating. On the whole, though, this is right with "Mansfield Park" as my least favorite Austen novel.Persuasion:Wonderful novel. Austen's most mature work, and one of the most heartfelt, particularly because you can feel Austen's own regrets coming through Anne Elliot. Not only that, but there's a sense of the past here, a sense of the characters having histories and interiorities--which doesn't necessarily ring true for her other novels. Of course, I do find myself wondering what it might have been had she survived to continue working on it (it's finished, but not heavily revised), because there are moments where it feels slightly unpolished. Anne Elliot is almost like a much more grown up, and far more fascinating, Fanny Price--quiet, with regrets and a lot of sensitivity, but Anne is genuinely a memorable character. This is a tale, first, of unrequited love and the pain that comes with it--but, as with any Austen novel, there's a happy ending. It's the journey to that end that makes this such a worthwhile novel.Lady Susan:Oops! Haven't read this one. But I need this compendium off of my currently reading shelf! I promise I'll read Lady Susan at some point!