4.5 stars. Sherlock Holmes is at his inscrutable and logical best, Dr. Watson is his devoted self and manages to actually be helpful, and the mystery is a solid one, with a gothic feel to it. And the Baskerville Hound is truly creepy.Holmes and Watson are visited one morning by a Dr. Mortimer, who explains the legend of the supernatural hound who haunts the Baskerville family. Many years ago, Hugo Baskerville kidnapped a local maiden, who escaped from his manor and ran off into the moors. When Hugo tried to chase her down, a great black beast "tore the throat out of Hugo" and "turned its blazing eyes and dripping jaws" upon his friends, who rode off screaming. Says the old manuscript Dr. Mortimer reads to Holmes and Watson:"One, it is said, died that very night of what he had seen, and the other twain were but broken men for the rest of their days."Now it seems the Hound has arisen again: Sir Charles Baskerville, a kindly older gentleman, recently died of a heart attack while running away from something that apparently terrorized him, and Dr. Mortimer reports that near him were the footprints of a gigantic hound.Sir Charles' heir, Sir Henry Baskerville, returns from Canada to take possession of the Baskerville estate. But a mysterious warning is left for Sir Henry:Also, some of Sir Henry's possessions disappear, and a sinister man is seen following him. Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson decide to get involved to try to protect Sir Henry from the fate that overtook his relative. Holmes, making excuses, sends Watson off to be Sir Henry's bodyguard. Off they go to the Baskerville estate on the lonely moor, where not only the Hound and, perhaps, a murderer, but also perils like a dangerous and crazed escaped convict and a quicksand-like bog await them. All in a day's fun!I think the mystery in this book is a better one than those in the prior Sherlock Holmes novels,A Study in ScarletandThe Sign of Four. The women characters are a bit helpless (Victorian times and all), butHound of the Baskervillesavoids the major racial and religious slurs and the lengthy (and tedious) flashbacks that diminish those books.If you want a good example of a Sherlock Holmes novel, I recommend you skip the first two and go straight for this one, unless you're a Sherlock completist.