Short yet full-packed with action. I am halfway with my quest to read the whole Sherlock Holmes canon and I've read two of his earlier novels and around 30 of his short stories but I think this novel is justthe bestso far.What make this differentand betterare the following: (1)the gothicingredient. The fearsome hound with burning read eyesthat later said to be because of phosphorus.I fear crazy dogs or dogs running amok because I was bitten by one when I was a small boy; (2)Watson,who usually works as Holmes's sidekick, takes thecenter stagehere; and (3) the narration of the scenery is flawless. Themoorthat is lovely and romantic in Emily Bronte'sWuthering Heightsand boring and dead in Frances Hodgson Burnett'sThe Secret Gardenbecomes fully alive buttruly frighteninghere. While reading, I could almost hear the sobs of the mysterious woman, see the dark gloomy still night with not a soul stirring in it and the pale moon barely lighting the solitary path to the lonely hill. This story's milieu is downright creepyyet it worked tremendouslythat I have not seen in his earlier works.As for the plot, too bad, I was able to guess that the villain was that missing person. This is a short novel but since I've read half of the canon already, while reading the first half of the book, I wrote the names of the characters.(Note: I used to do this in all the books I read before but I stopped because some books do not have many characters or not character-driven and it takes more time to read while doing the writing.)So, when it was mentioned that the dead Charles Baskerville has a missing kin, I put a question mark there and oh yeah baby, I got that one right. I think I am benefiting from reading Sherlock Holmes, I now have keener attention to details.And oh, my copy of this book is hardbound, the pages are pristine, crisp, thick, and glossy and will artist-like sketches or illustrations. Definitely what a bargain find for only $4 (P180)! That one made reading this book truly memorable too because I am used to read tattered books with yellowed and brittle pages. If the story is good, I don't normally care as long as the book is readable and the pages are intact but hey, if the bargain equally good book looks brand new, what more can I ask for?Happy 4th of July to my American friends here on Goodreads!