The best way I could find to describe the book is the American Civil War version of the Odyssey, with Inman as the wandering hero trying to find his way back home to the North Carolina Appallachians, and Ada as his Penelope tending the home fires. This is an oversimplification, but the epic scope is there, the perilous journey, the oddball characters met on the road, the mystical elements of prophecy, cursed fate, faithful love. Additional major themes tackled are the brutality and senselessness of war, women emancipation, Native American (Cherokee) Trail of Tears, music as soul healer and the majesty of nature.... he had seen the metal face of the age and had been so stunned by it that when he thought into the future, all he could vision was a world from which everything he counted important had been banished or had willingly fled.Inman is a young man born and raised in the high country, at the foot of Cold Mountain, the highest peak in this scarcely populated corner of North Carolina. He goes to war not out of any patriotic fervor or deep seated political convictions, but in search of adventure and excitement. The four years in the trenches cure him of any romantic feelings about organized killing, leaving him sorely wounded and spiritually crushed:Anyone could be oracle for the random ways things fall against each other. It was simple enough to tell fortunes if a man dedicated himself to the idea that the future will inevitably be worse than the past and that time is a path leading nowhere but a place of deep and persistent threat. The way Inman saw it, if a thing like Fredericksburg was to be used as a marker of current position, then many years hence, at the rate we're going, we'll be eating one another raw.His one comfort in the long bed ridden hospital weeks is a travel book describing the mountains back home, a Bartram guide that will accompany him on all his travels once he decides to turn his back on the war and walk back home. As a deserter he is forced to hide during the day and walk only by night, stealing what scarce food he could find. Local militias are combing the territory looking for his ilk, and more than once Inman is forced to fight his way free. The destruction of his character is visible most of all in the way he is still living in a world where the options are "kill or be killed", always ready to solve his problems at gunpoint. Inman is no angel of peace, making his separate peace and searching for redemption. He is still very much a professional killer, a desperado who will let nothing stand in his way, a PTSD victim that belongs in a hospital rather than roaming free."You will be living fitfully. Your soul will fade to blue, the color of despair. Your spirit will wane and dwindle away, never to reappear. Your path lies toward the Nightland. This is your path. There is no other."is the refrain of a Cherokee curse that marks every step Inman takes.Yet, glimpses of his former character resurface in the way he takes the part of the less fortunate than himself, usually women in distress (like Sara - a teenage war widow with a small child and a pig: "There was nothing about her story remarkable other than that it was her life."). As he leaves the lower lands and comes closer to the high hills, Inman's struggles become more desperate due to lack of food and exhaustion, yet his spirit becomes free of his flesh and soars:God, if I could sprout wings and fly, I would be gone from this place, my great wings bearing me up and out, long feathers hissing in the wind. The world would unfurl below me like a bright picture on a scroll of paper and there would be nothing holding me to ground. The watercourses and hills passing under me effortless and simple. And me just rising and rising till I was but a dark speck on the clear sky. Gone on elsewhere. To live among the tree limbs and cliff rocks. Elements of humanity might come now and again like emissaries to draw me back to the society of people. Unsuccesful every time. Fly off to some high ridge and perch, observing the bright light of common day.Inman chapters in the book alternate with the story of Ada Monroe. Ada is a preacher's daughter from Charleston, who moved to the mountains hoping her father's illness (tuberculosis?) wil improve. When he dies, she is left alone on the farm they bought, utterly helpless to fend for herself, (Monroe tried to keep her a child and, with litle resistance from her, he had largely succeeded.). She is a poster child of the Victorian morals and fetish for women as delicate and useless hothouse flowers. Some readers might find her part of the novel boring, but for me it was as compelling as the journey of Inman. Ada too is enchanted by the beauty of the mountains and is interested in all the forms of life around her - initially in an aestethic way through watercolours and journal entries, later through the healthy sweat of her labours and the satisfaction of doing things with your own hand. Ada is helped along by Ruby, a local girl who learned very early to fend for herself when she was abandoned by her drunken father Stobrod. Not even Ada's farm is safe from the ravages of war. Refugees from places sacked by the Northern Army pass through, local militias make their own law burning and pillaging. The most reprehensible thing in the whole book is this description of the total war concept, where you set out to destroy non military targets in order to demoralize your adversary. Unfortunately the tactichas become the norm in modern times where nothing is considered civilian anymore.A third storyline is introduced later in the novel, but it was one of my favorites, given my own passion for blues music. Initially Ruby's father Stobrod is presented as a lowlife rascal, but years away in the war have changed him in unexpected ways. His salvation comes through music:One thing he discovered with a great deal of astonishment was that music held more for him than just pleasure. There was meat to it. The groupings of sounds, their forms in the air as they rang out and faded, said something comforting to him about the rule of creation. What the music said was that there is a right way for things to be ordered so that life might not always be just tangle and drift but have a shape, an aim. It was a powerful argument against the notion that things just happen.I will stop here in order to not spoil the ending of the novel, as the paths of Inman and Ada converge, although many are probably familiar with it from the movie version. I liked the book better, especially as I thought the movie insisted too much on Ada and Ruby and not enough on Inman and his troubles on the road. Yet it was a faithful adaptation, and moreover it was filmed around my usual mountain weekend haunts in the Southern Carpathians arc, a lovely country, rugged in places, rolling hills over the next horizon, huge forests and welcoming locals. The descriptions of the Appalachians felt more than usually familiar and appealing:The track was ill used, so coiled and knotted he could not say what its general tendency was. It aimed nowhere certain but up. The brush and bracken grew thick in the footway, and the ground seemed to be healing over, so that in some near future the way would not even remain as scar. For several miles it mostly wound its way through a forest of immense hemlocks, and the fog lay among them so thick that heir green boughs were hidden. Only the black trunks were visible, rising into the low sky like old menhirs stood up by a forgotten race to memorialize the darker events of their history.I did have some minor issues with the book, mostly about the slow pacing and the surprising literacy of Inman given his modest origins, but the superb prose of Frasier more than made up for it. Just don't expect a fast paced adventure, and you might have a very rewarding read on your hands. Highly recommended for lovers of Nature and introspective historical fiction. I'll end with a Wordsworth quote Ada uses in the book to describe the mountains:Earth has not anything to show more fair. Dull would be the soul who could pass by a sight so touching in its majesty.link to a gallery of my mountain photos:mountain views