Charles Frazier's 1998 National Book Award winning novel, Cold Mountain, is sort of a love story. After barely having time to strike up a romance, North Carolina farmboy Inman is sent off to fight in the Amerian Civil War, leaving high society Charleston-bred Ada at home with a father who soon dies, forcing her to run their large farm and fend for herself in a world previously ignored by her as she focused on her literature, art, and music.Their stories are told in alternating chapters. In one chapter we read of Inman's Homeric trek, wounded in the neck, from a North Carolina hospital back to Cold Mountain where Ada dwells, wondering along the way if she'll even have him, and encountering a wild mix of characters and grim situations. The next chapter and it's back to Ada on the farm as she has enlisted the help of Ruby, a wild young lady, knowledgeable in the art of survival who has agreed to come on board with Ada and her farm at Black Cove.Cold Mountain in an odd way, reminded me of another novel I read recently called "Blindness." Because, ultimately, Cold Mountain is not about love, romance, family, or hope. Rather it's about war and the chaos, ruin, and abscence of hope that it leaves in its path.But Inman now guessed it was boredom with the repetition of the daily rounds that had made them take up weapons. The endless arc of the sun, the wheel of seasons. War took a man out of that circle of regular life and made a season of its own, not much dependent on anything else. He had not been immune to its pull. But sooner or later you get awful tired and just plain sick of watching people killing one another for every kind of reason at all, using whatever implementents fall to hand. So that morning he had looked at the berries and the birds and had felt cheered by them, happy that they had waited for him to come to his senses, even though he feared himself deeply at variance with such elements of the harmonious.So what happens to people when the normal rules of society, of living are suspended? What happens when "thou shalt not kill" and "do unto others...", not to mention the simpler limits of good manners and social etiquette are temporarily thrown out the window? When men become no longer in tune with nature and the friendly order of things, but take it among themselves to make their own rules, buck the system, and the natural peaceful order of living?Well, lots of bad stuff happens, as it does in Cold Mountain. But despite Inman's lack of hope or vision of anything good yet to come in the prescence of overwhelming pain, death, and despair...there is good to come. Resolve is strengthened, unlikely alliances are forged, and without rigid laws of society, people are able to trust themselves, to act and love more freely. Characters are stripped down of habits of over-analysis and come to depend on their raw skills of physical strength and self-reliance to keep themselves alive--to to keep love, andlifealive.Some people have called Inman's encounters boring, and although there were some tedious moments, when viewed as a whole, I appreciated the details. Anyone who's seen the movie knows the ending--haunting, powerful, and actually quiet, subtle, and more tastefully done in the book. I was definetely moved to tears. This story, these charactes, they just resonate....