First of all: this book will always have a special place in my heart. It means something to me and my own mother, and to be honest, it always makes me a little bleary-eyed and sentimental. So be warned, before you read this review, that it is coming from someone who loves this book for exactly what it is; a beloved childhood relic.Gee. My, oh, my. What has happened to childhood innocence? I weep for it.Who finds this books disturbing? Really? What's the matter with you people? Why ruin a precious childhood memory beloved of generations for a cheap laugh?This book is for children. It has humor and a deep set of strong values about parental love. It's about a mother always being there for her son and loving him from cradle to grave, because that's what mothers do. I bought this book for my own mother as a Mother's Day gift and we both adore it. I'm not ashamed to admit that when I read this book it makes me cry.What I find is that people complain that the mother hugs the child (apparently hugging your baby is molestation now, according to a few choice reviewers. How sad for future generations of children whose parents will be too afraid to hug them due to this view) when he is sleeping (what teenager wants to spend the waking day being constantly hugged by his mom in front of his friends? Don't even lie.) and that the mother 'sneaks' into the grown son's house to hug him when he's older. Who is reading a perverted connotation into this part of the book, which is supposed to be funny and cute, except for people who have too much time on their hands? This part of the book is there to show that no matter how old you are your mother is always there for you and you should never feel too old to take comfort in her singing you to sleep. I you think this is 'creepy' but have givenTwilightor some such creeper-glorifying garbage a glowing review, rethink what you are doing here.I love this book. It saddens me that people have taken something that is for children and pushed it into the adult mould until it ends up labelled with 'creepy'. Fine, adults, enjoy it. It's wonderful that a book like this can reach out to people of all ages. Just don't decimate it and pick fault for the sake of a cynical guffaw.Perhaps come back and trash this book when you have almost lost your mother, and she has almost lost you. Then I will take your plight seriously.Side note: Trolls welcome. Don't forget to leave a comment!