i need to make something perfectly clear. i am well aware that i gave 4 stars toDaughter of Smoke and Bone. and i am giving 5 stars to this one.the world is a tough and inconsistent sphere.becauseDaughter of Smoke and Boneis a much much betterwrittenbook. it's no contest. she is lush and lyrical and there is a gravity to her writing that makes you stop every so often to murmur, "well said, laini taylor, well said..."this book is just fun.fun fun fun fun fun fun fun funthis is unexpected pillowfight, marshmallow syrup on strawberry ice cream, kitten in a bag fun.it was recommended to me on here by a different karen, and i borrowed it from work almost immediately. before that,i had never even heard of it, which is strange, because it appears to be something of a sensation. and i definitely get why.if you are someone who needs your dystopian fiction to, you know, make sense, you probably won't like this. no one is going to read this book and think, "oh, man - that isexactlywhere our society is headed! i can see that becoming a reality in five years' time!!" nope.it is more like a board game: there are rules and you accept them and you play. "but why are you a scottie dog and i am a thimble?? that makes no sense!!"because that's how that game is played. stop asking so many questions and roll the dice.fun fun fun fun violence fun fighting fun fun fun(view spoiler)[fucking BUTTER KNIFE in THE EYE!!!(hide spoiler)]superfun whaaaaaaat? fun pow.i love this character, i love this book, i love the construct, as little as it holds up to scrutiny. all i know is it grabbed my attention and i refused to stop reading. there was no grilled cheese that night, let me tell you. i want this entire series to be written, now, and i want to climb out onto my fire escape with a package of iced oatmeal cookies and my rabbit and some pink lemonade and not be disturbed for a week or so. depending on how long this series is going to be.oh, but bad cover. bad, bad cover. i would never have picked this up without the rec.come to my blog!