4.5 I'm yours. I will always be yours StarsSpoilersFirst Read Feb. 16th 2015Reread Sept. 25, 2015Re-reread 6/3/2017What a Awesome conclusion to the Fifty Shades trilogy. So bittersweet that it had to end, but Christian and Ana deserve their happily ever after. God knows they worked hard for it! IF you have not read the first two books in this series you really need to, to understand this book. They all go together and should be read in order."So beautiful," he says as he deftly undoes the first button. "You have made me the happiest man alive today."So in Fifty Shades Freed we pick up while Ana and Christian are on their honeymoon, and we get little flashbacks of their wedding. Which was very sweet. We also get a flashback of Christian when he was four and get to see what it was like the days after his mother killed herself until he is found laying next to her dead body , and it broke my heart! Poor lil four year old Fifty!I poke him with my elbow. "Mrs. Grey, you wound me." He clutches his side as if in pain. "Wimp," I mutter disapprovingly. "Wimp?" he utters in disbelief. He slaps my behind, making me yelp. "Hurry up with my food, wench. And later I'll show you how wimpy I can be."Christian in this book does some more growing , but he also has some set backs. Which made him feel more human. He isn't a instant fix and he is still healing. He is still everything that makes him Christian Grey sexy, bossy, kinky, fucked up control freak, who is trying real hard to let go, and better himself. Christian has a very sweet and romantic side too. He can be very cute and playful and when he is, it just makes the book!"Anastasia, if you leave me, you might as well take everything. You left me once before. I know how that feels." Holy Fuck! "That was different," I whisper, moved by his intensity. "But . . . you might want to leave me." The thought makes me sick. He snorts and shakes his head with mock disgust. "Christian, you know, I might do something exceptionally stupid - and you . . ." I glance down at my knotted hands, pain lancing through me unable to finish my sentence. Losing Christian . . . fuck. "Stop. Stop now. This subject is closed, Ana. We're not discussing it any more. No prenup. Not now - not ever.""You turned my world on its head." He closes his eyes, and when he opens them again, they are raw. "My world was ordered, calm and controlled, then you came into my life with your smart mouth, your innocence, your beauty, and your quiet temerity . . . and everything before you was just dull, empty, mediocre . . . it was nothing." Oh my. "I fell in love," he whispers.Ana was great in this book. She was strong and sassy, sweet and bold, but she did have a few moments that I was like Huh? Moments in which I feel she should have tore into him a little more , fought a little harder , but if she came out the gate kicking ass and taking no prisoners I don't think she would be the real Ana. I love how she starts to really get some confidence in herself in this book and in her relationship with Christian!"You're right to be nervous, Gia, because right now your work on this project hangs in the balance. But I'm sure we'll be fine as long as you keep your hands off my husband." She gasps. "Otherwise, you're fired. Understand?""I love philanthropic Christian," I murmur. "Just him?" "Oh, I love megalomaniac Christian, too, and control-freak Christian, sexpertise Christian, kinky Christian, romantic Christian, shy Christian . . . the list is endless." "That's a whole lot of Christians." "I'd say at least fifty.""Christian, I've been yours since I said yes." I scoot forward, cupping his beloved face in my hands. "I'm yours. I will always be yours, husband of mine. Now, I think you're wearing too many clothes.""I love you so much." Trailing kisses from the nape of my neck to the edge of my shoulder. Between each kiss he murmurs, "I. Want. You. So. Much. I. Want. To. Be. Inside. You. You. Are. Mine."Fifty Shades Freed was so damn good , from the minute I started reading I didn't want to put it down. Ana and Christian together * Fans self* OH Good lord, Hot as Hell! I love their playful emails, I loved the drama , and OMG the Sex after the Car chase!!!!!!!!!"Why, Mrs. Grey, you have a dirty, dirty mouth." Christian feigns an offended expression, but I can hear his amusement. "That's because I'm married to a dirty, dirty boy, Mr. Grey."Towards the end Mrs. E.L. James Really started dropping bombs, and I was freaking out , doing a little happy dance, fighting tears, and wanting to shake Christian, then forgiving him, wanting to shake Ana , then fighting tears again, AND the End OMG the epilogue!!!!! I Freakin loved the epilogue it made the whole damn book for me!!!!! Totally heartwarming."Oh, baby, please come back to me. I'm sorry. Sorry for everything. Just wake up. I miss you. I love you..."I loved the Fifty Shades series and would recommend it . I know it's not for everyone, but I truly enjoyed all three books. I will end this review with Christian and Ana's wedding vows which are just beautiful!"I give you my solemn vow to be your faithful partner in sickness and in health, to stand by your side in good times and in bad, to share your joy as well as your sorrow," I murmur. He freezes. His only movement is to open wide his fathomless eyes and gaze at me as I continue my wedding vows. "I promise to love you unconditionally, to support you in your goals and dreams, to honor and respect you, to laugh with you and cry with you, to share my hopes and dreams with you, and bring you solace in times of need." I pause, willing him to talk to me. He watches me, his lips parted, but says nothing. "And to cherish you for as long as we both shall live." I sigh. "Oh, Ana," he whispers and moves again, breaking our precious contact so that we're lying side by side. He strokes my face with the back of his knuckles. "I solemnly vow that I will safeguard and hold dear and deep in my heart our union and you," he whispers, his voice hoarse . "I promise to love you faithfully, forsaking all others, through the good times and the bad, in sickness or in health, regardless of where life takes us. I will protect you, trust you, and respect you. I will share your joys and sorrows and comfort you in times of need. I promise to cherish you and uphold your hopes and dreams and keep you safe at my side. All that is mine is now yours. I give you my hand, my heart, and my love from this moment on for as long as we both shall live."http://jessicasoverthetopbookobsessio...