"Down vith children! Do them in!Boil their bones and fry their skin!Bish them, sqvish them, bash them, mash them!Brrreak them, shake them, slash them, smash them!Offer chocs vith magic powder!"Oh, thank goodness for the likes of Roald Dahl, who can combine the scary with the funny stuff and open a treasure chest of children's fairy-tales with all the wisdom humanity is capable of (which, of course, still is quite limited).As a child, I was terrified and fascinated at the same time when I read this story, hiding it under a pile of other books before turning off the light at night. I just couldn't stomach the idea of finding myself face to face with the witch and her friends in the vulnerable state between sleeping and being awake.Later, when I read it to my own three children, my youngest cuddled up in my lap and bit her nails while her brothers tried to downplay their excitement. From that experience, I mostly remember the giggles when we tried to imitate the witches' funny accent.And then I read it to school children. I will never forget those children sitting cosily in front of me on a carpet in the library, surrounded by books and drawings. I slowed down, and made my voice quiet, and read - very carefully - the witch warning:"She might even be your lovely school-teacher who is reading these words to you at this very moment. Look carefully at that teacher. Perhaps she is smiling at the absurdity of such a suggestion. Don't let that put you off. It could be part of cleverness.I am not, of course, telling you for one second that your teacher actually is a witch. All I am saying is that she might be one. It is most unlikely. But--here comes the big "but"--not impossible."I looked up and saw all those students' eyes staring at me. They remembered me dressing up as a witch at Halloween, and I believe for a moment they pondered the possibility of me being clever enough to cover up my actual "witchedness" by pretending to be one.Recently, my son and I talked about this novel again, as his brother started reading it for the third or fourth time. And all of a sudden, we discovered another layer beyond the message of "stranger danger" and the power of love and friendship to overcome difficulties.Those witches at the private meeting in the hotel are like celebrities and politicians believing they are alone and stripping themselves of the inconvenient political and ethical correctness which they officially claim to believe in while plotting against the future of the next generation for their own benefit.Underneath the polished surface, we discover real life witches in all shapes and forms each time we check the news. And that is what Roald Dahl's sense of humour is based on. His characters may be unlikely, but they are not entirely impossible! There is a hint of truth in the bizarre story of witches who want to exterminate the "stink" of children."Everyone loves children, and nobody wants to hurt them" - that is a more absurd statement than the witches' mission if we just take into account human ACTIONS (as opposed to official STATEMENTS) during the past thousand years or so.So, beware of witches! And you never know if I am not one myself, hiding behind the warning like Iago talking about jealousy, that green-eyed monster, that he stirred up himself?