My very first comic / graphic novel - and yes, I don't really know the difference except, maybe, that graphic novels are darker than the typical comic books? Or maybe it's just the difference in origin? Before I offend hardcore fans of the genre, let's move on to my review of this one, shall we? ;pBy the way, since this is the first graphic novel I've read and am reviewing, I thought it appropriate to finally try including images / gifs - if you don't think it appropriate, shut up.So here we go ...As I said, this was my first. Somehow the genre never seemed appealing to me although I've heard great things here and there. However, since I have seen the movie several times andlove it, I decided this would be the perfect try.And it was.You probably all know that the story depicts a grim future with a totalitarian regime that rules through fear. And that can (still) happen to us (again). However, it also has wonderful characters that I wish will live should this future ever come to pass. And I'm not just talking about the grim "hero" V, but of the more silent heroes / heroines as well because the story could never have unfolded the way it did without them!The story is fascinating, breathtaking, touching, fast-paced, thrilling, depressing, gripping and very dark. On the other hand it has lighter moments whenever V is doing something that doesn't make sense (or so we think at first) which appears to be borderline funny.What I loved best about the story was the atmosphere created - by the words as much as by the stunning artwork: dark and nightmarish, making you look over your shoulder constantly.My favourite part was and still is Valerie's story and how it was told. Beautiful. Elegant. Tragic. With the right kind of strength that gives others hope and strength in turn. And yes, I was crying and hugging my pillow and I will buy a big dark red rose tomorrow (although not the exact one from the graphic novel / movie). ;pSo this puts me in a bit of a predicament. I loved this one so much that others will probably not stand a chance. Thus, I'm back to square one: not sure if I'll read more of this genre (but Neil Gaiman's Lucifer sure is tempting). Anyway, this was a wonderful reading experience and I'm glad I dipped my toes in this (to me) unknown land. Guess what I'll be watching tonight! :D