Wow! There was so much about this book that I really loved. 'Eleanor &amp; Park' was touching and beautiful in it's simplicity. This book captured the essence of first love and the perils of high school, while also tackling some serious issues, like abuse.I listened to the Audible version and I have to give kudos to the narrator(s). The narration was extremely well done. The voices of the characters really drew you in and made you feel like you were right there in the moment with the characters. It says a lot about the narration when it can pull you into a story so completely.As I was listening to this story, my heart broke for Eleanor. She had such a horrible home life and her school life wasn't any better. The poor girl couldn't escape bullying wherever she went. I felt so bad for her as she tried to navigate her difficult teenage years while trying to stand proud in the face of such cruelty. She was so smart, but trapped by the life she was dealt.Park's life stood out in stark contrast to Eleanor's. He was raised in a home that was pretty much "ideal". Of course, he had the typical teenage concerns and conflict with his parents. However, his petty problems only served to highlight how fortunate he was to have loving parents when contrasted with Eleanor's reality.Although Park initially avoided any association with Eleanor, succumbing to peer pressure, he eventually opened up to the girl that sat beside him on the school bus. That took a great deal of bravery on his part. Let's face it, teenagers can be very cruel. Park risked joining Eleanor at the bottom of the social hierarchy when he decided to go against the grain and be kind to her. Little by little, they formed a friendship. Eventually, that friendship grew into more.Park became the single most positive part of Eleanor's daily life. He was the only person that showed her concern and treated her kindly. As the two grew closer, his family also served as a safe haven for Eleanor. For these reasons, I grew to love Park also.This is a coming of age story and a story of first love. Rainbow Rowell managed to transport me right back to high school. Everyone who has been a teenager can relate to the experiences and emotions of these characters. This is the type of story that serves to remind us of the consequences of our actions and the effect of our words.From start to finish, I was enthralled with 'Eleanor &amp; Park'. I was sure that this would be a 5-star read for me right up until about the 90% mark. Then, the story ended rather abruptly and I was left wanting. I couldn't believe that the author that wrote such a beautiful story would end it in that way. It just didn't seem fair or right. After everything, I was furious to see it close in the manner it did.Overall, it was still a fabulous story. I won't lie. I hated the way that the story ended. I just don't need my fiction to be that true to life.In fairness, the ending doesn't seem to be an issue for most of my friends that have read this book. For me, it was upsetting enough to knock a star off the rating. The ending wrecked me and I went in search of a second book or an extra something that would provide closure. It didn't happen and I'm still reeling. So, I loved it....right up until the ending.Check out more of my reviews atwww.bookaddicthaven.com