Rick Deckard, is a bounty hunter for the San Francisco police, the year 2021 ( January 3rd). His mission is to "retire" six androids, who fled bleak Mars and illegally came to Earth. World War Terminus has depopulated our world, radioactive fallout called "dust", continues coming down and slowly killing the survivors, who have moved to cities. Making many of the people still living, chickenheads, excuse me, special. Animals are virtually extinct, electronic duplicates are in great demand, real ones cost a fortune to buy, but humans need their pets ... Rick has a phony sheep, his mental health requires him to get the real article, his job can make that happen. The U.N. encourages everyone to migrate to the Red Planet, giving a free robot slave for all who do (they're built there), on arrival. But Mars is uninhabitable, stark, lonely, a horrible hell hole, a frontier without any charm or romance, nothing to recommend , settlers hate the place, feel like prisoners, yet the government keeps that a state secret. But the hopeful Earthlings, must have a future... Mr. Deckard , has not a very understanding wife and unfriendly too , Iran, calls him inaccurately, a cop, doesn't like her husband's job, the pay is very lucrative though, he tells her. She spends most of her free time, using the Empathy Box ( the Mood Machines, keep people mostly contended), just turn the two handles and you fuse with Wilbur Mercer and his new religion of Mercerism, "Kill only the Killers ". A kindly old man, forever climbing a hill, being struck down with rocks by unseen murderers. You can be hit too, when you take the trip and experience it yourselves, feel like you are really there... Mercerism has opponents, led by Buster Friendly, calls the religion a fraud, the enormously popular television host, in the only channel not run by the government, how he works hour after hour tirelessly, broadcasting his talk show, through the many hours of the day, and on radio also, is a mystery... Rick has taken over the mission to eliminate the "andys'", because his predecessor Dave Holden, was shot and almost terminated by the new model of robots, Nexus-6, brain units, almost as smart as genuine people. The original 8, are down to just 6, thanks to Holden, who is still in the hospital. Deckard's boss Inspector Bryant, is not sure of the new man, wants him to do the almost impossible, destroy all of them in one day. But first flying to Seattle and meeting the makers of these humanoids, Eldon and his niece Rachael Rosen, in the Rosen Association building, needing their help and trying the Voigt- Kampff machine, to detect the human looking andys. Later the dazed, exhausted, remorseful bounty hunter, thinks of sleeping with a female android, what in reality is a human being ? Back on top of the roof of his crumbling apartment complex, lies his hovercar... up in the air , he floats above what's left of the sad town, the city is no more, garbage everywhere, kipple it's called now, the world has become a gigantic dump... flying towards his uncertain destiny... A thought- provoking science- fiction tale, with a message, that requires the reader, to find it themselves. A classic.