Can an animal part wolf, part dog, be rehabilitated and become a domestic pet? The exact opposite of, another Jack London novel, The Call of the Wild. So the premise is, in White Fang. A runaway former Indian bred she- wolf, Kiche, along with forty odd others, in a wolf pack, are following three men on a dog sled, two still alive. Famine grips the territory in the Yukon, during the Klondike Gold Rush, Canada, just before the start of the Twentieth Century . The wild animals are starving, literally they're just skin and bones . Bill and Henry need to get to civilization quickly before the wolves have dinner. A dead man is on the sled, in a coffin (some kind of British nobleman, name never given), why such a person is here, the two live ones can't figure out, and never asked. Their job is to take him to a little remote town... (Strange goings on), Bill feeds the seven dogs with fish, at camp, but Henry tells his partner they have only six. Fires ring the fugitives from the law, of the survival of the fittest, the higher the flames arise, the better, how long the wood will last, is something the men don't want to think about. A dog disappears in the bitter cold , horrific night, at another stop another and , well you get the picture , no more dogs, or bullets. One gentleman is left, the hungry wolves come in....The wolf pack breaks up into smaller and smaller groups, the famine ends. Kiche the she-wolf, with some dog blood, takes a mate, One-Eye, an older animal. A litter of five, are born by the Mackenzie River, but only one cub, later named White Fang, reaches maturity. In the future, a vicious ninety pounds of anger, kill before they kill you is his way. He learned it early, to live is the only important thing. All else doesn't matter, nature is cruel, the brave, the strong prosper, the weak, fall down and stay down. Grey Beaver captures the cub, his late brother had owned his mother, Kiche, so he claims him as his. The tribe agrees, and takes him to the Indian village, later sells the valuable grown up wolfdog, to Beauty Smith (who brought the liquor bottles), while drunk, an alias that the white man doesn't deserve, not by a long shot, he is the ugliest man around. The beatings that White Fang received, from Grey Beaver, is increased greatly by Smith, he likes punishing the animal, it makes him feel brave and he is the biggest coward in Fort Yukon. His new owner has contests, dog fights, inside a cage, the crowd of men cheer on wildly,( humans, the real beasts), bet on their favorites, during the carnage, with any opponent fool enough to challenge White Fang . Turning the already brutal wolf dog, into a smart, perfect, killing machine. Until Weedon Scott, arrives, a kind man with political influence. The question, will Scott rescue the unloved wolf dog, who has never known gentleness from people, just whippings, and the club, on the head, or a kick to the body, get the salvation he desperately needs ? Probably Jack London's best book.