My second book by Jack London. As a kid, I watched Disney's movie with Ethan Hawke and loved every second of it. The majesty of the nature scenes, the thrilling albeit tragic life of the wolf (the German title of the story is "Wolf's Blood").Since I keep working my way through a wide range of classics, Jack London was not to be missed and his books were really perfect for winter (incidentally, the weather got really icy every time I picked one of them up).We follow a she-wolf as she chooses a mate and has a litter. One of the pups is the titular White Fang. Through his eyes we experience the life among his siblings, famine, encounters first with Natives and then with white humans, dog fights, pain and betrayal but also love and even humour.Despite the age of London's stories, they address topics that are still relevant today - such as human greed, falsehood, friendship and more. The author's musings regarding human nature incorporated in this adventure were poignant and mostly accurate (I disagree about Beauty Smith not being culpable).I seriously hated most humans here. *lol* Naturally, people thought differently about animals then compared to now, but even then one should have valued life, whether furry or not. I can consider the times a story takes place in but animal cruelty is wrong no matter what century.Thus, despite Grey Beaver already having been horrible, Beauty Smith was the worst because he pollutes the already tarnished White Fang! To a certain degree, that made them alike: both had bad pasts full of negative experiences. The noteable difference, showing that the author also thinks animals are the better people, is how(view spoiler)[White Fang manages to turn around and lead a good life thanks to his benevolent master in the end(hide spoiler)].Best of all are the nature descriptions. It seems to be Jack London's greatest gift. The characters are nicely fleshed out and the story is solid and keeps you at the edge of your seat, but it wouldn't work the same way if it weren't for the reader landing smack in the middle of ice and snow in the American North, the wild north full of woods and lynxes and all kinds of other wildlife. Moreover, as mentioned in the previous book I read by him, it shows that he was actually there himself. He knows what the cold feels like, how the different hours of light and dark can have a significant impact on one's mood, what noises keep one on edge the whole time and how one must rely upon one's companions (furry and otherwise).Longing is what this book is all about. Longing for freedom and independence, but also for a place one can call home, longing for companionship and love, longing for the vast wilderness and spirit of nature.