I'm way more than content with the ending. I believe I love this book even more than "The Call of the Wild". They're both quite opposite really and all too different too. This book is about White Fang-the wolf dog who only knew the wild until he ventured upon an Indian Camp. We see him grow and accept the various laws of nature and laws of men he learns. We see true wildness and we see it softened only by love. I hoped it won't end like his other book and was glad to have the end that I kinda hoped for.The writing was picturesque just as usual. It seems too real. You can feel all that he felt and there was nothing unanswered. It was marveling how it unraveled.What I appreciated most were the first two or three chapters telling us about the Kiche and One Eye and familiarizing us with them. Had those chapters not been there, I don't think the loss of them would have had the effect it had. (P.S. I confused One Ear with One Eye in the start. Too similar were the names).Once again we were shown the cruelty and severity of man with animals. It hurts how they hurt them and then had in it them to laugh. And once again we are shown that there comes a time when that beating doesn't amount to much and where nothing can has it effect but love. And what an effect it has!It's another stunning book.(view spoiler)[My thoughts at PG 54This is my second Jack London book and it brings back similar feelings in me. The first part was kinda eerie and scary and one can't stop reading, can't wait to see what'll happen next as dog after dog disappeared and the only questions that came to mind was "Who'll be next, and what'll happen when the dogs are gone?"(view spoiler)[I almost expected Henry to become their last prey too. It was so real. On the other hand, I was surprised to see One Eye alive and at the front of the pack. Guess only Bill died that day.(hide spoiler)]The second part was completely different and focused more on the wolves. How they hunt, how they stay together and what competitions they have among themselves. Then it becomes more than that. We see how a she-wolf tends to her cubs and how she treats their father then. Jack London's writing is too real, too picturesque and one can't help imagining the wildness of it all.(hide spoiler)]