5 stars.I grew up with an old, yellowed paperback copy of this book sans front cover sitting on my parents' bookshelf. I remember seeing it there on that bookshelf for a decade and thinking to myself how stuffy and boring it obviously would be. It wasn't until I was 23 or 24 visiting my parents' house, inconspicuously stealing things to take home with me, that I decided to snatch it up from that bookshelf with a handful of other books it had never occurred to me before to read.Maybe it was just the place I was at in my life at the time and the meaningful relationships I was then engaged in but I was immediately, profoundly, tragically affected by the simple accounts of the these boys and their experiences and interactions. I didn't relate to their time in a boarding school or their anxiety about the possibilities of going to war. What I did relate to was jealousy. I did relate to Gene, always feeling second-rate in all the things that really mattered. I know what it's like to be grateful for a best friend and love him in the way that friends do and still secretly wish him failure and embarrassment.I've since come to realize that there are far more people who see themselves as being Gene than Finny. And whenever a Gene consciously or subconsciously "shakes a tree branch" if you will, it changes them. As Gene explains:"Everyone has a moment in history which belongs particularly to him. It is the moment when his emotions achieve their most powerful sway over him, and afterward when you say to this person 'the world today' or 'life' or 'reality' he will assume that you mean this moment, even if it is fifty years past. The world, through his unleashed emotions, imprinted itself upon him, and he carries the stamp of that passing moment forever."Gene mentions this in reference to the war and how it will always be his reality but, given his behavior regarding that tree, one can tell that there are more specific moments we all have etched into our memories whether from joy, fear, regret or fondness. This book is one of my very favorites not because of any deep or complicated wisdom but because it's a mirror that helps me reflect on my own reality and the unconscious envies and insecurities I harbor. Who knows what other treasures have been hiding on my parents' bookshelf...