What I thought about this book in middle school:I don't get it. What?What I thought about this book in high school:This is stupid. What?What I thought about this book in college:Okay, so two kids meet once, "fall in love", and then commit suicide over each other in just four days? IDIOTS.What I thought about this book after finishing it today, aged 44:Wow. Shakespeare is a GD genius.What I didn't realize until today, after reading it a few times and watching several movie adaptations, is that this story isn't about young, stupid loveat all.First of all, these characters are people I know. Romeo is my friend Mike, Juliet is my friend Jess, the nurse is my mom telling her embarrassing stories all the time, and Mercutio is my friend Chris. Chris "that's whatshesaid" Chris.Yes, love is in there. But what I saw when reading it again this time is that everyone has their own ideas of what love is. Romeo and Juliet are in passionate, crazy, how-you-feel-about-someone-the-first-few-weeks-of-a-relationship love. The nurse has a more practical idea of love. Juliet's mom thinks love is based on what you can get from someone. Juliet's father thinks love is being obedient. Mercutio thinks love is only a means to a sexual end. Paris thinks love is something you can earn or demand from someone.But much more than love, this story is about life. It is about the people in our lives, how we deal with them, how they each have their own agenda without knowing or even caring about anyone else's agenda, how life fucks around with us and knocks us down, and how your destiny will hunt you and get what it wants from you no matter how you try to avoid it.I particularly liked Shakespeare's use of day and night/light and dark. Romeo describes Juliet as the sun, and Juliet describes Romeo as stars. They see each other as sources of light. But they must sneak around to see each other, and can therefore only meet up at night when it is dark. In order for them to see each other's light, there must be some darkness. Damn it, Shakespeare. *swoon*There are many other great themes and symbols in here, more than I could possibly go into in a review. The bottom line is that Romeo and Juliet is now my second favorite Shakespeare play, just behind Hamlet. The balcony scene alone is worth the time it takes to read the entire book.Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon who is already sick and pale with grief that thou, her maid, at far more fair than she.Damn it, Shakespeare.*double swoon*