"Know what that is, all around us, Winnie?" said Tuck, his voice low. "Life. Moving, growing, changing, never the same two minutes together."Geez - who wouldn't want to live forever? Just think of the unlimited time to read; you'd finally get to EVERYTHING on your list. There'd be time to learn to play an instrument . . .allthe instruments! You'd have all the time in the world to master all sorts of skills.But, there would be drawbacks, of course there would. (Just ask Dr. Who.) You'd have to watch your loved ones grow old and die. You'd still need to work and earn money. And, one thing I never thought of until I read this book - you'd need to move around quite a bit, as others became suspicious of your lack of visible aging."I want to grow again," he said fiercely, "and change. And if that means I got to move on at the end of it, then I want that, too. If people knowed about the spring down there in Treegap, they'd all come running like pigs to slops. They'd trample each other, trying to get some of that water. That'd be bad enough, but afterwards - can you imagine? All the little ones little forever, all the old ones old forever. Can you picture what that means?Forever?The wheel would keep rolling by to the ocean, but the people would've turned into nothing but rocks by the side of the road."I've decided that if I'm going to work as a children's librarian, I should probably read some of the classics. I suppose thisisconsidered a classic; though it was only published in 1975, it seems much older. There is a timeless appeal to this book, but perhaps it is it's subject matter that makes it seem immortal. I mostly enjoyed the book. Things that annoyed other readers - the age difference between Winnie and Jesse, the few plot holes, the ending - didn't bother me a bit. Ah, the ending . . . I loved the ending. I loved that the author(view spoiler)[did not shy away from death - a sad, but necessary part of life.(hide spoiler)]I would recommend this one. READ it! (I wish I had - I listened to the audiobook which was narrated by Peter Thomas. He did a fine job, but his voice reminded me of those voice-overs from all the film strips I was forced to watch in elementary school. Ugh! Is it time for recess yet?)