Update 11/28/14.So, of course I had to read it again after getting only half of the story from the Mockingjay movie. Unsurprisingly, cried and cried again. My feelings basically remain the same about this installment. Structurally, the novel is quite messy. There is such a big game going on and Katniss' motivations and actions don't always make sense to me. But the ending is brilliant, especially the final chapters.I need something to cheer me up ASAP.Let's face it, a series is only as good as its last book. Is a kitchen towel drenched in my tears a good indicator of the quality ofMockingjay? I think it is, considering that I am not a crying-over-books type. I think this book is aFANTASTICending of aFANTASTICseries.The book is lying next to me now, so deceitful in appearance, with its innocent, bright, cheerful cover. Who knew there would be so much darkness hidden between its pages, so much heartache?Mockingjayis indeed aDARK, DARKbook full of deaths, sacrifices, torture, betrayal and despair, a book which takes you to a very disturbing but very real place.I have no doubt the novel will have thousands of readers livid, especially the crowd of readers who mistakenly thinkThe Hunger Gamestrilogy is mostly dedicated to Team Gale/Team Peeta dilemma with some revolt thrown in as a picturesque backdrop. These books are about love indeed, but they are also about survival, freedom, and peace.I find it amazing that people are disappointed that Katniss doesn't take a Katniss-becomes-a-superwoman-and-takes-over-the-world-while-deciding-on-which-boy-to-pick route. How realistic is it to expect achilddamaged by hunger, oppression, and violence she had to witness and take a part in, and thrown into the midst of all kinds of political intrigue, to achieve that? How many soldiers do you know who came out of a war unscathed or empowered by the atrocities they have witnessed? How many children?This is why this book has such a great effect on me. It takes a very difficult but honest route, portraying the infinitely damaging consequences of war (regardless of the righteousness of its cause) and Katniss's journey to stay true to herself and do the best she can. And the love triangle resolution. Truly, it couldn't have ended any other way.IsMockingjaya perfectly written book? Absolutely not, it's not nearly as perfectly constructed or clear asThe Hunger Games, but just like another imperfectly perfect successful series finale -Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows- it brings its message across in the most honest and powerful way possible.Suzanne Collins is a genius, she is fearless and I have a great respect for the gutsiness of hers that didn't allow her to settle for an ending all wrapped up in pink paper with a perfect little bow. I am sure she knew that the faint of heart would be enraged. But she stuck to her guns and stayed true to her message and to her characters.The question now is how will I recover from PTSD of my own caused byMockingjay? It will probably take me months and a score ofGeorgia Nicolson diariesto get over it. But I love this book anyway, in spite (and because) of all the pain it has caused me.Real.