The Inheritance series was originally supposed to be the Inheritance trilogy, with this as the concluding volume; but Paolini decided that he wanted to, in his words, "explore and develop the character's personalities and relationships at a more natural pace," so he made this into a sort of transitional volume betweenEldestand the final climactic conclusion. But this isn't purely a time-marking exercise; significant things happen here. A dwarf king will be chosen (and the stakes, and tension, will be considerable). The Varden will take the offensive. The question of whether or not Katrina and Roran will be reunited will be answered. A magic-endued sword will be forged. Major secrets will be revealed: about Eragon's parentage, and about the dragons --and the latter will hold the possible key to Galbatorix's power, and (maybe) how to overturn it. And possibly not all of the major characters will survive until the end....Some of my Goodreads friends, in their reviews of this book, expressed some frustration with the slow pace. That's always been the converse of the author's attention to highly-detailed world building and character development, which are as rich here as ever. It's probably fair to say that the pace is slower here than in the previous volumes. That didn't strike me personally as a major problem, partly because I read this out loud to my wife, in bits and pieces as we had opportunity, over a period of more than a year; under those conditions, ANY book will seem to be slow-paced. :-) I was pleased that the lecture against religious belief put in Oromis' mouth in the second book wasn't repeated here; indeed, there were a couple of passages that subtly hinted at a more positive assessment (and at least showed that Eragon was thinking for himself in that area, rather than trying to be an uncritical clone of his mentor). As a friend also noted, we don't see as much of Arya the elf or Angela the herbalist here as we do in the previous books, and they're missed when they're not around, since they're two of Paolini's best creations. (Hopefully they'll be more on center stage in the final book.) As partial compensation, Roran comes even more into his own here.In summary, this is a strong continuation to the series, and a must-read for anyone who enjoyed the first two. (It would not stand alone well, nor be as easily appreciated if read first; this is one series where I'd say it's particularly important to read the books in order.) So, now it's on to the concluding volume,Inheritance!