John Tyree grew up in Wilmington, North Carolina. A couple of years after John had graduated he felt like he was at a bit of a loose end. He'd had a few local jobs, but nothing ever lasted for long before he moved onto the next job. Although he lived with his father their relationship was pretty strained and when John had spare time he spent it surfing. Surfing was the only thing that he really enjoyed, but he knew had to find something else to do.John decides he will enlist in the army as he feels he has nothing to keep him in his home town. Army life will make John grow up and become a different person. After being in the army for awhile he returns home on leave to spend time with his father. But his father hasn't changed and is still a hard person to get along with. To pass the hours John decides to gets back into surfing which he has missed.One day whilst out surfing John meets Savannah Lynn Curtis. She has just had her purse knocked into the ocean and John races into the water to retrieve it for her. From this day on they start to spend time together and in time they will fall in love. John takes Savannah home to meet his father and within a short time Savannah feels there is something not quite right with his father. Later on she will tell John that she thinks that his father has a disorder, but John won't hear of it and is adamant that she is wrong.The time comes when John must return to the army, but they will keep in contact thru letters and will count the days down to when John will return. In their letters to one another they will express how much they love one another and can't wait to see each other. As the days and weeks pass this time gets closer and soon they will be reunited. But then out of the blue something terrible happens which is 9/11. This day will change the lives for so many, but also for John and Savannah as John is torn between the duty to his country and the desire to go home to Savannah. But will Savannah understand if John decides to re-enlist?This is a beautiful love story which I really enjoyed. If you enjoy a good romance and are a romantic at heart then this book is definitely for you and I highly recommend you read it.