First of all i have to mention this is the first maybe the last novel which i read from endless number of romances of Sparks. It's more than a romance!I don't usually surf in the romance section in the bookstore. One day i accidently saw Dear John on the shelf of deserted counter. There were many novels of him including "The Notebook", "A walk to remember", "Message in a bottle" so on..After reading the question on back of the book i bought it without hesitation. The question was : ".. can they survive the distance?"This is life story of John Tyree, american special forces soldier and his distance relationship. John was a trouble maker in his youth. After dropped out from his high school John enlisted into army. He had problems with his attitude. In the army John has been changed.He's a tall, calm, well-built average soldier who has no friends apart from army. He lives on side of the beach with his dad. His dad has some serious mental disorders. One time on the leave John met Savannah.Two weeks. That's all it took to fall in love with her. After two weeks Savannah had to leave to the college. They made a promise that they will write to each other.They kept a promise till 9/11. The day shook the world John decided to enlist back to serve his country some more years. Unfortunately Savannah couldn't bear the time&amp;distance again. She fell in love with someone another. Fate brought them together but distance kept them apart.In the end they couldn't survive the distance. Novel ended up John seeing Savannah from a distance. However the movie ends by their meeting after a long time. I am not sure which one to prefer. But i strongly believe what's meant to be always finds its way.Sometimes i want John's life. No friends, special duty for his country, a beach house, surfing on the sea all day. So much lonely but real.This novel made me realize about distance relationships as well was military duty seriously.I'm going to take motherland's call of duty very soon. To serve my country and be a better person, be a real man.