Book One of my epic buddy read of the Wheel of Time world withBranwen Sedai, one of the nicest people of OUR world! :DFrom the Eye of the World, you can see just how much danger the world is really in!(That's not in the book, I just made that up myself. Don't worry, Robert Jordan's writing isn't nearly as cheesy as mine!)Life in the village of Emond's Field had always been peaceful. Sure, the people sometimes argued, as families do from time to time. But ultimately, the village was a tight-knit community, and people rarely left, since they had everything they needed at home. It was a quiet life, but a fruitful one. One where people felt safe enough to leave their doors open to everyone, secure in the knowledge that the greatest evil in the world, the one most people only refer to as the Dark One rather than daring to even speak its name, was safely locked up and could no longer hurt them.That all changed the night the invaders came into town. Vicious misshapen creatures and supernatural fiends from people's worst nightmares. And their presence means something even more terrifying. The seals on the Dark One's prison are not as secure as they thought. A great evil is spreading throughout the land, whispering in people's ears and poisoning and corrupting anyone who chooses to listen.Now, a group of youngsters from the village find themselves chased from their safe home. They've traded their quiet lives for a daring adventure, one worthy of the greatest storybooks...but only if they survive long enough to tell it. And as they find themselves entwined in the ultimate war of light verses darkness, there is one burning question that haunts them throughout..."Is one of them destined to be the person to save the world...or to destroy it?I'm actually writing this review long after reading the book, and truth be told, I still haven't been able to wrap my head completely around it! Robert Jordan's world-building is so vast and intricate, it takes time to be able to absorb it all. His lush descriptions of the environment bring his words to like so effectively, you sometimes feel like you'relivingthe book rather than reading it. But I think the book's greatest strength is its main characters, who I'll be discussing in order of my own personal preference:Moiraine -"Whatever the Dark One wants, I oppose, so hear this and know it true. Before I let the Dark One have you, I will destroy you myself."Moiraine is part of a society of magic wielders called the Aes Sedai. Later books get more into the various factions of the Sedai and the ideological differences between them all, but mostly what we're told about the Sedai in this volume is that many people fear them...and they may be right in doing so! Strong in mind, spirit and ability, Moiraine is a commanding yet charming presence from the moment she arrives at Emond's Field. Her magical powers and sense of authority reminded me of Tolkien's Gandalf...right up until the point where Moiraine promised the boys she would murder them if it was the only way to keep the Dark One from claiming them! That's when I realized Moiraine is really more like Gandalf if Gandalf's contingency plan was to throw Frodo into volcano along with the Ring if he had to!"Of course, if anyone earned the right to throw Frodo into the fire, it was Sam!"Nynaeve -(Perrin talking about Nynaeve): "You think a little thing like a sunken ferry could stop her?"Known as The Wisdom of Emond's Field, Nynaeve mostly acted as a healer and a mediator during her time there. I'll be honest, at first I found Nynaeve a little abrasive. Not only does her temper cause her to hurt people with her words, sometimes she even hits them with a large stick, and what first felt like "tough love" starts to feel more like a WrestleMania event!(For the record, if Nynaeve was a pro wrestler, she's so tough she would win every match, no matter who was actually scripted to win!)"However, when a group of Two Rivers villagers leave with Moiraine, Nynaeve travels many miles and face many dangers just to bring them back. While the others are mostly motivated by self-preservation, Nynaeve's main concern was to protect the people of her village. How could I not admire Nynaeve after that? She started out one of my least favorite characters and by the book's end had become one of my favorites instead!Rand -"A fine day for going unnoticed! I might as well carry a sign!"Most of the book is told through Rand's POV, and it was through him that I felt Jordan pulled off his best writing trick. Rand isverydifferent from most fantasy novel heroes. Whereas most fantasy protagonists tend to be swashbuckling, Rand manages to be...uh, whatever the exact opposite of swashbuckling is!(Unswashbuckling???)If he's running across a 100-acre field that has only one rock in it, you can bet Rand will manage to trip over that rock! If a stranger holding a warhammer asked Rand,"Would you please follow me into this trap?", Rand will be there right behind him! At times, Rand made me want to scream. But I also recognized that that was due to the brilliance of Robert Jordan's writing. Rand acts exactly like what he's supposed to be, a sheltered, innocent boy who is in way over his head. Add to that his affable personality, and it's impossible not to like him...which makes it even harder to watch when he manages to blunder into a life-threatening situation for the 1,000th time that chapter!Lan -"Anything can be a weapon, if the man or woman who holds it has the nerve and will to make it so."Jimi Hendrix...Sean Connery...Samuel L. Jackson...some people were just born to be cool..."This is NOT one of those people!"Strong and stoic, Lan makes an impression as soon as he arrives with Moiraine. While Moiraine is really the more powerful of the two, Lan is still the more intimidating one. What's even more impressive is that Lan manages to be bad-ass not in what he says, but in what he DOESN'T say! Lan rarely feels the need to threaten anyone, as one look into his eyes tells people you're more likely to survive a 20,000 foot drop (sans parachute) than a fight with him! Lan is so confident he never feels the need to prove himself to anyone, and as a result he never loses his cool. In fact, he manages to be even cooler than Sean Connery and Samuel L. Jackson combined! (But not Jimi Hendrix...even in a fantasy novel, someone being cooler than Hendrix is just too far-fetched!)Perrin -"Leaders in stories never had to put up with this sort of thing."Of the three Emond's Field boys that travel with Moiraine, Perrin is the most compassionate. Physically stronger than the other two, but also kinder in nature, Perrin is very likable. Awkward, but likeable. In these types of novels, the characters usually have to get used to the idea of killing their enemies right away, but what makes Perrin stand out is that he NEVER gets used to it. Facing so many dangerous foes, in order to survive, Perrin may have to fight, but he doesn't have to like it!Egwene -"No one tells us how to be men. We just are.""That is probably why you make such a bad job of it."Egwene managed to charm me, even though she really has the weakest motivation in the story. While the boys of Emond's Field are running for their lives, and Nynaeve is pursuing them to try to protect them, Egwene says she's tagging along because she wants adventure.(You would think after her village was ransacked the night before, the ol' adventure meter would have been full already!)Of course, it's entirely possible Egwene was really just going with them because she was concerned about the boys, but that theory is somewhat weakened by the fact that she can't go 5 seconds without hurling an insult at one of them! Still, her wit and feisty nature made me like her even in the moments when she was hard to like.Loial -"A mob chased me all the way across the city. I'm afraid I was beginning to get a little upset"Since I said I would talk about these characters in the order in which I liked them, the fact that Loial appears second-to-last may seem like a swipe at him, but really it's a testament as to how great the other characters are! Giving new meaning to the phrase "gentle giant", Loial is a Ogier (basically an ogre) who would much rather have a book in his hand than a weapon. Really, the only reason Loial doesn't make quite as much of an impression in the story as the others is because he is introduced much later in the book than everyone else.Mat -"So you're having trouble with a couple of farmboys. Maybe you Darkfriends aren't as dangerous as I've always heard."Sometimes you wish book characters could come to life because they're so awesome. In Mat's case, I wanted him to come to life just so I could murder him! The only character I couldn't stand, Mat manages to exude 10 times the foolishness of Rand yet 0 times the charm. He's obnoxious and grating. The scariest part is, I get the feeling Mat was supposed to be the comic relief character, despite the fact that he rarely does anything funny. Mat is to comedy what Arnold Schwarzenegger is...to comedy!In fairness to Mat, I'm currently reading Book Three in the series, and he does show a good amount of character growth by then...but that doesn't change the fact that all throughout this book, while Mat was being chased by the Dark One, I found myself rooting for the Dark One!While I loved this book, I will say that it's not for everyone. The world-building is a little clunky at times, as Jordan has a tendency to make mentions of characters and places long before they actually appear in the story. In some ways, this makes the later books more rewarding, as things that were left a mystery in book one make much more sense later on. Also, there are long gaps in the action sometimes, so anyone looking for a fast-paced adventure may be frustrated with this one. However, if you're looking for a rich world to explore filled with compelling characters (and Mat), then it's time for you to journey to the Eye of the World!P.S. - Here was my original review, I wrote it right after a few GoodReads users got busted for plagiarism, and I addressed it in my usual subtle way...I, David Green, absolutely loved this book! It's going right on my favorites shelf, which is named"David Green's favorites", because my name is, in fact, David Green! I can't wait to read the rest of the series which has already been uploaded to David Green's(that's me)Kindle!Let's see you copy/paste THAT, review thieves!;)