"The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend. Legend fades to myth and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth returns again.What was, what will be, and what is, may yet fall under the Shadow."I have heard of 'The Wheel of Time' from my cousin, Brandon Sanderson, the readers and my Goodreads friend. When I have became a huge fan of Brandon Sanderson. My cousin is a huge fan of Brandon Sanderson too. He told me that Brandon Sanderson has wrote the last three books of 'The Wheel of Time'. He hasn't reading it yet but he wants to read it. When I have researched about 'The Wheel of Time' series, I have found out that there are lots of books in the series fifteen books in 'The Wheel of Time' series! Then I have heard that Brandon Sanderson was influenced by Robert Jordan and I have seen many readers have praised towards 'The Wheel of Time'. I find it curious. I have asked my Goodreads friend as I see he loves 'The Wheel of Time'. I have asked him whether 'The Wheel of Time' is worth reading. He told me definitely, if I love Sanderson's books then I told him oh man! I love Sanderson's books. I have decided to read 'The Wheel of Time' series.It is mind blowing. AlhamdulIllah, I love this book so much. I will definitely carry on reading this series. Inshallah.It is an unusual epic fantasy book. I have never read this kind of epic fantasy book before.Robert Jordan was a great author. I can see that Jordan has copied it from Tolkien but I don't mind because Jordan has his own original idea of storyline.I have noticed that Brandon Sanderson and George R.R. Martin have used the name for the character from Robert Jordan's ideas the names of his characters. Brandon Sanderson has included the character named Wit in 'The Stormlight Archive' series I know his real name is Hoid. George R.R. Martin has included the character named Bran in 'A Song of Ice and Fire' series. Wit and Bran names are in this book.'The Wheel of Time' has drawn millions readers of worldwide.The worldbuilding is stupendous! Robert Jordan has done very well.This book has drawn me. I am addicted 'The Wheel of Time' series.This book does remind me of 'The Lord of the Rings'. I have pointed out that Jordan has copIed some aspects from Tolkien: Jordan has included The Black Rider which originally idea from Tolkien, Tolkien has used the phrase 'Hobbit' refer to the small group of people whereas Jordan has used 'Darkfriend' also I feel both universes: 'Middle-earth' and 'The Wheel of Time' are reminiscent someway.Robert Jordan is the pseudonym of James Olivier Rigney Jr.