I did the unheard of, I took a day off writing in order to finish reading this book.I understand why I loved this book, but I am less sure why so many millions of others did. The plot of this book revolves around solving puzzles and tasks based on 80s nostalgia, our hero, a young man born fifty years later, has to research the period, and specifically one old man's nerdy take on the decade.For me this meant a trip down memory lane, taking in specific D&amp;D modules I played through with my friends (The Tomb of Horrors) to a level that I recognized each element as our hero encountered it, revisiting the music (some of it new to me, some of it very familiar), all the cheesy films (teen, fantasy, scifi), and the video games - he even referenced three games that I specifically talk about in the last book I wrote (Robotron 2084, Pacman, &amp; Street Fighter).I really enjoyed all that. I'm trying to imagine if he had set it in the 50s and talked about a lot of stuff that meant very little to me... I don't think I would have enjoyed that much. And yet that must be how this book seems to someone who is 20-something...Anyway, there's more to the book than 80s puzzles, though they do dominate. This is a contest taking place in a virtual world where most of the real world like to hang out. The contest and the contestants are fun. We get regular updates on the scoreboard. The dystopian real futuristic world outside adds another dimension where, because of the incredible value of the prize (ownership of the simulation (like having all the shares in Facebook, Twitter, Instagram etc)) there are conflicts about the game outside the game. There's a giant cheating conglomerate to run from and hopefully ultimately to defeat.There's even a romance thread!This is an exciting story, especially for geeks, and the key word is FUN. You're not going to find powerful prose, extensive character development, or deep themes. There's an arm wave at the end toward the notion that living in the real world is probably better for us, but yeah, shallow stuff though enormously absorbing, and I loved it.Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes...