So you know that time when you read a really good book and then, for some reason, you wait forever to make a review, so the little things that would've made your review 'spicy' are gone from memory?It's one of those times!And you know that time when you are writing a review and you are almost done and you accidentally delete it?It's also one of those times! Yep!Now, for short, if you don't feel like reading the rest of the review (trust me, you have better things to do with your time), I LOVED LOVED LOVED this novel.As I said, I forgot a lot of little things, but I do know RPO was the best book I had the chance of reading last year. I remember having a lot of moments while reading it when I felt just... satisfied. For the lack of a better comparison, it felt like a long ASMR video that keeps the tingles going for hours at a time.Sounds creepy? Good.But being serious, it was one of those reads that feel like they are made for you. I am not into video games, but I am into books (duh!) and even more so into movies and I am, by all accounts, a geek. And RPO is a celebration of geekdom (does this word even exist? oh well...). And no, that doesn't mean you'll find descriptions of a naked Arwen or a sex-crazed Hermione in it. And no, you won't get every reference, because holy hell, the entire book is one big reference (like literally big, almost 400 pages - and yeah, I know that you Game of Thrones readers are laughing at me right now, but I also read those books so screw you!).On another point, I don't remember exactly why, but the ending felt like the weak point of the book. Of course, that doesn't mean much considering how good the rest was.Overall, I think what made me such a big fan of this was it's very theme. The idea that, even knowing it's not real, you would still leave your world behind just to live a fantasy. It kinda strikes home for many of us who like reading or watching movies or playing games because our own world is so limited. And after I finished it, I spent a lot of time wondering if, if OASIS was real, I would become addicted to it. And I think I would. In fact, I am sure of it. What a loser-y thing to say, huh?Gosh, is this even a review? Okay, I will end it here seeing how I am clearly blabbering. Anyway, just read this god damn book, please!