OMG!!! Seriously,this book was amazing. I never thought I would love it the way I did, I mean, I knew I would like it, but not that I would be this crazy about it.My problem with other Sparks novels:His beginnings are always very slow , so until now I never gave more than 4 stars to any of his books. But that was not the case at all with this one.I loved every page of it. I never was dissatisfied at all, actually I couldn't stop thinking about the book. If you liked A Walk to Remember and The Notebook, you will love this one because it has the same style, while most Sparks' other books are of a different sort.The characters:Were should I start? Ronnie was a great character.To watch her grow through the whole book was great, I loved to see how she went from a confused and rebel teenager to a mature full-grown young woman. She managed to end up satisfied with her life and proud for what she accomplished.Jonah, her younger brother, was the sweetest kid ever. I couldn't get enough of him. Every time he said 'awesooome' I just wanted to hug him forever,LOL.And Will... well, he is the perfect Hero, the kind and loving boyfriend, perfect for the heroine in every way. I completely adored him. Every time he appeared and said something I melted. My heart was lost from page one.And Steve, Oh, Steve. I completely adored him since page 1. I couldn't have asked for a better father figure for the kids. He was so patient and everything Ronnie needed. I was so happy to see how he finally managed to get in good terms with his children again. But the best thing about this book was the process, to see how both of them started trusting and caring for their father once again.The book:I just loved how everything developed. Everything connected just right at the end. And what an ending. I love books with a HEA. Although this one will make you burst into tears like a cry-baby, SO BE READY and have some tissues at hand. Seriously, I spent the last 100 pages crying and crying and CRYING. I'm not kidding with the tissues, you will really NEED them. This book was so heartbreaking at times that I felt my heart breaking into a million pieces. It touched me in ways I never thought a book could. I just loved this read and would strongly recommend it. =)