I first read this book 8 or 9 years ago before the movie came out and I absolutely loved it (I also loved the movie and it is a fairly good adaptation but the book is better. The book is almost always better). I am glad to say that years later, my opinion on the book hasn't changed and I loved it just as much this time around.When I was younger, I used to love all of Nicholas Sparks's books. It was around when this one came out that my feelings towards his books started to change. I read this one, Dear John, and The Lucky One all around the same time (and I do like all of them, but this one is my favorite of the three) and maybe it was because I was a little older than when I started reading his books, but I started noticing a pattern in all of his stories that made them slightly less enjoyable as I continued to read.(view spoiler)[ (Using the spoiler tag just in case) Each story has romance and tragedy. Someone will die no matter, whether or not it's absolutely vital to the story. In this book, it kind of is, and I think that's why I liked this one better than the other two I mentioned.(hide spoiler)]Because of that, I haven't read any of his books in years, but I am so glad I reread this book.In this book, Ronnie has just graduated high school in NYC and she and her 10 year old brother are being sent to live with their dad in Wilmington, North Carolina for the summer. Ronnie hasn't spoken to her dad in the 3 years since her parents divorced, and she doesn't want to be anywhere near him or in North Carolina. Throughout the novel, we see how Ronnie's relationship with her dad changes by her being forced to spend the summer there, as well as seeing her fall in love for the first time.Nicholas Sparks's books aren't for everyone, and I get that. But I think this is one of his strongest works (that I've read) and I particularly love seeing Ronnie's growth throughout the book. Also, I am basically in love with Will, lol. I highly recommend this book if you enjoy contemporary stories, with both strong family elements and first loves.