4.5 StarsI originally heard aboutThe Last Songbecause the movie was coming out some years ago. I watched the movie and fell in love. Eventually I thought to buy the book and it sat on my shelf for the longest time. Finally I picked it up and I'm so very glad I did.I can't began to explain how much more I love the book rather than the movie. It was just so much more insightful to the characters and their stories.Plot-I knew the plot and all the twists going in so I thought I wouldn't enjoy it as much because I've technically been spoiled. But that wasn't the case, if anything I enjoyed the plot more. The love story was pretty spot on, even though sometimes it felt like insta love just like in the movie.( gosh it was worse in the movie) Yes the romance did feel cheesy and cliche but it was so powerful at the same time. I loved seeing Ronnie shape into a better person because she was falling in love and maturing. But the best part of the plot happened at the end. I don't want to give anything away just in case you haven't read it, but it is so shattering. It broke my heart and filled it with joy at the same time to see Ronnie and Steve interact with each other on such a deep level. The ending really hit close to home because my uncle is in the same situation and I love him with all my heart and I loved seeing how Ronnie coped with everything. It made me finally realize that life isn't always planned and unexpected things happen but you have to deal with it and be happy no matter what.Characters-I didn't think I could love the characters any more than I already do. But again I was wrong. The book developed all these characters even more beautifully. It really surprised me when I read about the true story lines and backgrounds of Marcus, Ronnie, Will, Steve and Blaze. I was especially surprised at what was in store for some of these characters(Blaze and Marcus). Being inside Will and Ronnie's head was so freaking enjoyable because I got to see them fall in love more vividly.Now here is where the tears came. Steve. Reading his point of view was heartbreaking. Reading his letters were heart breaking. Everything about his story line is heart breaking. I can't begin to tell you how much I cried during the end of the book because of him. He was so free spirited and care free.Nicholas Sparkstruly inspired me with this character and I don't think any other character could trump Steve. Ever. He was that amazing.Writing-Nicholas Sparksis a very talented writer. The writing in this was absolutely beautiful and life changing. His writing has such a lyrical tone and everything he wrote inspired something inside of me. He knew how to describe certain things down to a science. His details were intricate and vivid. He knew what not to drag on about and what to emphasize. His writing was magical in this book and he carried this whole book out perfectly with it. The reason I dock half a star was because at some points I got bored but it only last for like a page and then everything went back to being spectacular.Overall-This book was all around amazing and I'm so very happy to have finally read aNicholas Sparksbook. I can definitely recommend this to everyone out there! I don't think anyone could hate this book and if they did, then they don't have a heart. The writing is phenomenal and powerful. The characters are so well developed and you will fall in love with them, except maybe two.