The Inferno, part one of Dante's epic poem, the Divine Comedy, is the most imaginative and lyrical poetry I have read so far in my life. I'm yet to read Purgatory and Paradise, but in my honest view, I doubt if any other poetic work can surpass Dante's Divine Comedy.Inferno is Dante's experience in walking through Hell. His guide is no other than Virgil, the famous poet who wrote Aeneid, sent by Beatrice, Dante's devoted love interest, who he says is in Paradise.Dante's version of Hell is influenced by Christian theology, philosophy and former literary works of Virgil, Ovid, Homer and the like. Virgil's Aeneid is said to be the most associated literary text that have influenced Divine Comedy the most.Dante's Hell is funnel shaped and has nine tiers which punish different sins. At the bottom, there is Lucifer.It is fascinating to see how imaginative and creative Dante has been in inventing the different tiers of the hell, the sins which are punished in them and the punishment types. The punishments which begin lightly in the first tier gets gruesome as you go down the tiers. Some of the characters (sinners) in the Hell include the real life people Dante knew (some who were not even dead at the time of Dante's fictitious journey through hell) as well as classical and mythological characters that were drawn from famous, old literary works.What I was awestruck the most is the graphic account of Hell given in such beautiful lyrical verses. Even the gruesome details of punishment of the sinners were made less horrific because the verses describing them were melodious. And the sinners, chosen from existed and existing people and some of the most loved mythical characters, added realism to the poem.I'm so amazed that a work written in thirteen century can have such a strong impression on modern readers. But given the quality of the work, the realism with which the work is so imbued, it is not surprising the reverent popularity the Divine Comedy has acquired and maintained throughout the centuries.