There are a number of books that shape the youth of a child. This was one of those books for me, alongside a handful of other Roald Dahl classics. I remember reading it (and having my father do so as well) and getting lost in the story, which I did again today. Young Sophie finds herself unable to sleep one night at the orphanage in which she resides. Peering out the window, she sees a shadowy figure passing down the road, with an odd contraption he uses while poking his head into surround windows. When Sophie spots this figure, a colossal giant, she is scooped up and taken off. Kidnapped, of a sort, Sophie learns that this giant is even larger than he appeared in the shadows, but nowhere near as frightful. That said, the odd giant patois he speaks leaves Sophie to wonder how calm and peaceful he might be. It is in the Land of the Giants that Sophie learns a little more about her captor, the Big Friendly Giant, 'BFG', and the other giant-figures in the area, who have a penchant for human flesh. Sophie also learns that the BFG possesses the ability to instil and inject dreams into the bedtime thoughts of any person, children in particular. He shoots the magic dream dust into his special pipe and, POOF, off it goes and the individual is left to stream the thoughts through their subconscious. Armed with this information, Sophie has an idea after learning from her new friend of the recent kidnapping number of children across Britain by these foul giants. They will alert this highest authority to ensure these evil giants are captured and brought to justice. Next stop, Buckingham Palace! The BFG and Sophie work together to convince the Queen, through a dream sequence, that these events have taken place and that Sophie is the key to helping find the giants. A trip into central London earns Sophie and the BFG an odd morning visit with Her Majesty, during which time all is revealed. Can the Queen use the powers at her disposal to hunt down the kidnapping giants, or will everyone be left with a taste as bitter as snozzcumbers in their mouths? Dahl takes readers on a wonderful journey through some interesting ideas to present one of the central stories known to many young Dahl readers. Perfect for any age, but especially those with an open and vivid imagination.Dahl continues to marvel with all his ideas and variances on a similar theme. Those who have read a great deal of the author will know he drops references of other books into the narrative, while always keeping things fairly unique and individualised. Dahl offers up a new set of curious characters and some completely horrible villains, as well as the amusing 'power elite' in our actual world. With much gibberish found in many of Dahl's pieces, this one is chock-full of offbeat words and giant patois, which will have the younger reader (or listener) giggling as the story continues. There is little left out in this piece that warms the heart as well as gets the its pulse elevated. Perhaps in my top five all-time, this Dahl piece is exquisite in its presentation and delivery.Kudos, Mr. Dahl for keeping me excited throughout this piece. I could not have found a better way to spend a few hours and hope to introduce these to Neo before too long.Like/hate the review? An ever-growing collection of others appears at:http://pecheyponderings.wordpress.com/