I am always reluctant to read books about kidnappings and captivity. The y can get too emotionally manipulative. Too often such books become almost unbearably violent (memories ofLiving Dead GirlandTender Morselsstill make my skin crawl) or unrealistically light and a tad misguided (I am in a minority in my assessment ofStolen: A letter to my captor, but I do think the setup of this book is far from reality). ButRoomgets and portrays such an experience just right IMO. I guess this is why it snagged aBookernomination.Of course, the personal story of a 19-year old girl kidnapped and held captive for 7 years in a confined space of 11 by 11 ft, is horrifying. But it is told from a POV of her 5-year old son Jack who is sheltered to the extreme, even from the captor, and whose childhood had been practically idyllic. Jack's life in Room is full of adventure, games, play, and studying, and, most importantly, great times with his loving Ma. He doesn't comprehend the horror his Ma has to live through, he doesn't know why he has to sit in the closet and count while Old Nick comes over to "jump on Bed," he doesn't understand why his Ma would ever want to leave their Room. But we do.Jack's perspective is definitely the most unique aspect of the novel. The topic of kidnappings is in vogue right now in literature (And no wonder, just google the words "kidnapping" and "captivity." These are the kind of atrocities that come up:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fritzl_casehttp://listverse.com/2008/08/28/10-te...),so it is pretty hard to create a work of fiction that will distinguish itself among others on the subject. But Jack's "voice," with his unawareness of the outside world, inability to understand that this world is not limited to 11x11 sq. ft, space, and lack of social interaction with anyone but his mother, is a wonder and the strongest point of this book.Another important issueRoomtouches upon is what happensafterthe escape. The escape is only the beginning of the journey to recovery, if such a recovery is at all possible.Roomis undoubtedly a hard book to read, and yet it is at the same time a hopeful story, a story about unwavering love between a child and a mother, and about new beginnings.As for theRoom's chances of winningBooker, they are pretty slim IMO. I don't think it well qualifies as literary fiction. Good popular fiction - yes. The subject matter is just too commercial and worn out to create any significant literary impact.This an interesting essay byEmma Donoghueabout the research she did for the novelhttp://bookpage.com/books-10013638-Room