Celebratory 2:00 am review, just great!!!When I finished this, I was definitely clapping my hands!!This is not a story if you are one of those who are mad excited to read it. It's a tome of its size that is equivalent to an encyclopedia with depth, width, and value. It's the densest nonfiction I have read. It is an attempt to read a genre I really wasn't familiar with.Since I got into reading, I believe that nonfiction is one of the genres that is most daunting to me. In 2016, I definitely attempted a few; yet, I never really expected to grab this one off the shelves like that and just read it. It has an encyclopedia feel and it definitely reads like one as well.Charles Darwin is quite the familiar science genius known to students studying biology everywhere. He along with Mendel, the father of genetics, are the monsters for biology making it seemingly hard.As I mentioned above it's not a story, and it's not a simple read or a book for enjoyment. It is also not a list of drone. It's a rather valuable read of its size with historical touches and very good research on animals and all their genres with density and heaviness.The theory of natural selection as studied in class is not well explained by mere professors. I bet these clowns never came to attempt reading this. I'm repeating it's not a novel and a story you read for leisure time. Professors want to finish curricula, and that's why that's the part that's rushed at the end. I dreaded the study of kingdoms and phyla and Darwinism, because it was never properly explained.After reading this, I think my self respect and self esteem both grew at sheer, personal will while experiencing this book. Before reading, my imagination was always centered around the fact that this book is boring and I'll never find it on ebook. Now, I come to say that I was really thankful to my library for providing it online.Natural selection as emphasized, is the pure fact that all animals are picked out in accordance of their strengths and most intricate and distinguishable characteristics to build the up and coming generations. With this critical focus and specific selection comes variability. Variability is the guy who screams so loud, that for instance, a rose and an orchid are not the same, even though they are both very well known beautiful flowers to the sight of our eyes. Different species of dogs and bees evolve to not be the same. Each animal evolves to have their varied kinds and characteristics.I think of it as myself reading a book and loving it at the end. Did I necessarily love each page? Not necessarily, which presents myself as selective; however, I may have liked the book for its content or flow of a story, even though I didn't like a character or two, or even three.This book is my dense pride of 2016. It will mark my last nonfiction of the year, not because I had enough and finished a book; but rather, because of its mere volume, density, and pure heaviness. I intentionally took long breaks to go back and think what I learned, it really was a ton of material!!! This doesn't make it a textbook. It's an awesome encyclopedia full of potential with long lists of animals who were very well researched down to the hairs on their skin to state their merest and very specified difference, as to say: "We are both redheads, but you specifically have this characteristic pimple or bump, which makes you slightly different".Natural selection is a dense concept to attain and learn, because of how variability in the varieties are sincerely observed. I had mentioned that I skipped a whole chapter, which I ended up reading at the very end. It was the chapter on the objections against the theory. I was wondering why is this in the middle of the book, rather than at the end? I skipped it at first to first learn about the theory and various research along with all the researchers who helped Darwin writing this book with insights on their research. Objections, I thought came later. The reason why they came in the middle, I later on discovered is for the fact that these particular objections were not covering the whole book, but rather the first few chapters.It was very good, very dense, and a very important scientific classic. It needs a good amount of patience and belief in your progress. I have a different appreciation for animals and plants knowing that the best of its kind supplant all the others, making it really significant and absolutely striking. Seriously? Yes, absolute genius of a volume!! :)