I had some idea, from the hokey friendliness of the name "Tennessee Williams," and the cute titles of his plays - "Streetcar Named Desire"! "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof!" - they sound like musicals - I had an idea that these would be friendly. Pop culture. In the great telephone game of pop culture, what I ended up hearing was Marlon Brando yelling "STELLA!", which sounded pretty goofy to me.That was the wrong impression. This play isdark.I love the mix of realism and poetry here. Stanley is almost always realistic - in the style of other 20th-century playwrights, saying things that real people might say. But Blanche is all poetry, Shakespearean. (And she gets the best lines; most of the stuff I quoted below is by her. (The first one is Stella.)) Williams weaves those styles together wonderfully; that's one of his best achievements.Here's me confused about the message:(view spoiler)[I'm not sure what to make of it. I sympathized with Stanley at his first appearance, because he seemed down-to-earth; then I sympathized with Stella, because Stanley was quickly uncovered as a violent man; then with Blanche, who just wants a fresh start; then with Stanley again, because he's really trying to tell the truth. In the end, Stella recedes into the background, an insignificant person - not Williams' fault; his decision - and Blanche emerges as the person you're most able to empathize with, out of a thin stable. So...the upper classes whore themselves out, are traumatized by homosexuals (which Williams was) and then raped by the emerging, grounded lower classes, who are furious at their shallow lies? To be led away in defeat and insanity? Hrmf, that doesn't feel like I've got it right. I'd like to read more of Williams' plays; I think there might be more to it than that. I mean, I think part of his point is clearly that people are too complicated for heroes and villains - but still, everyone has a point, and...I'm not sure I have a handle on his.(hide spoiler)]But I really liked this. I thought it was complicated and nasty and progressive. I got a lot out of this.Here are some of the things I got:Act I scene 4: "There are things that happen between a man and a woman in the dark - that sort of make everything else seem - unimportant."Scene 5: "When people are soft - soft people have got to court the favor of hard ones, Stella. Have got to be seductive - put on soft colors, the color of butterfly wings, and glow - make a little - temporary magic, just in order to pay for - one night's shelter! ... I've run for protection, Stella, from under one leaky roof to another - because it was storm - all storm.""I want todeceivehim enough to make him - want me...Blanche, do you wanthim?I want torest!I want to breath quietly again! Yes - IwantMitch...very badly!"Scene 6: "I made the discovery - love. All at once and much,much too completely. It was like you suddenly turned a blinding light on something that had always been half in shadow...but I was unlucky." Holy shit! That next passage is unexpected.Scene 9: "I'll tell you what I want. Magic! Yes, yes, magic! I try to give that to people. I misrepresent things to them. I don't tell truth, I tell whatoughtto be truth. And if that is sinful, then let me be damned for it! -Don't turn the light on!"