Don't be fooled by the beginning. This book is about Blanche, pure and simple.We have Stella, who ought to know better and does know better, but doesn't act on that knowledge. Not for herself- she refuses to accept her husband is a violent, worthless cad- and not for her sister Blanche, who she seems to love above all else. Who would rather lock up her sister than believe what her sister said: that Stella's husband raped her. Oh, she knows perfectly well; that's clear enough. But it's just easier to throw her sister in an asylum than to admit her husband is as horrible as he is.We have Stella's husband Stanley, a worthless piece of debris, a wife-beater and a cheater and a rapist of his sister-in-law.We have Mitch, a plain and simple-minded child of a man. Go0d-hearted, perhaps, but deeply simple and easily influenced.But then we have Blanche. Oh, Blanche, what a heartbreaker. Pitiful and sad, but curiously enough, she's the wisest character in the book by far. Dizzy and silly and absurd, but practical in her own way. More than that, she's insightful: into her own life (she knows perfectly well her whole life's a sham, and her repression of it all is a conscious, aware repression), into her sister's (she knows right away what sort of man Stanley is), and into life in general.So of course, it's Blanche who the world calls "crazy" because she's poetic enough to wish for beautiful things (how appropriate that Stella and Blanche's lost plantation home is calledBelle Reve: beautiful dream!) and to try to see beauty and elegance and art in humanity, poetic enough to pretend it's there even when it's not; because she's practical enough to do what she must to survive, like becoming a sex worker; because she's brave enough to tell the truth about what Stanley did to her, even if she knows her sister will pretend it isn't true.Who, in the end, is the crazy one? In the end, which of these characters deny reality most truly?-----------------------------------------Some Blanche quotes:"The opposite [of death] is desire.""I've always depended on the kindness of strangers."MITCH:"I don't think I've ever seen you in the light ..."BLANCHE:"There is some obscure meaning in this but I fail to catch it."MITCH:"What it means is I've never had a real good look at you, Blanche. Let's turn the light on here. ... So I can take a look at you good and plain!"BLANCHE:"Of course you don't really mean to be insulting!"MITCH:"No, just realistic."BLANCHE:I don't want realism. I want magic! Yes, yes, magic! I try to give that to people. I misrepresent things to them. I don't tell truth, I tell whatoughtto be truth. And if that is sinful, then let me be damned for it!Don't turn the light on!"