3.5 stars rounded up to 4B is for BerendtRead a book with antonyms in the titleSo I just realized that I totally forgot to review this one.....idiot moment #85749For me, Savannah's resistance to change was its saving grace. The city looked inward, sealed of from the noises and distractions of the world at large. Itgrewinward, too, and in such a way that its people flourished like hothouse plants tended by an indulgent gardner. The ordinary became extraordinary. Eccentrics thrived. Every nuance and quirk of personality achieved greater brilliance in that lush enclosure than would have been possible anywhere else in the world.This is probably one of the best nonfiction tales I've read in quite awhile. In fact, many times I felt like I was reading a novel. Berendt's writing style is comfortable, approachable, and conversational; everything I want in a narrative nonfiction book. The characters were so interesting and dynamic, and the setting is SAVANNAH for crying out loud. Each idiosyncratic and vivid identity depicted within these pages seems like something out of a novel, so I loved loved loved that they all are, in fact, real, living, breathing human beings who lived in Savannah when this book was written.From an eccentric gay antique dealer who may or may not have murdered his young, redneck, playboy lover in cold blood to a beautiful trash-talking drag queen (my personal favorite of the bunch) to a mysterious and slightly loony voodoo priestess to a penniless womanizing philanderer, these characters were all extremely memorable and were my favorite part of this book. The setting of Savannah, a character in itself, was perfect and made me want to plan a trip there soon.Where this book lost me a bit was the long and detailed murder trial of Jim Williams. It was oddly thrown in halfway through, and while I enjoyed knowing what would happen, it was written as the principal story among all the other stories, and the one I found the least interesting. So I was a little disappointed that it took up the most real-estate. I needed more of Chablis and her fierce attitude, Joe Odom and his pretty but naive fiancee, Mandy, and Minerva's voodoo. I would have taken 300 more pages of their stories.The real bits, the pieces of factual information I gained about Savannah's culture and history were an added bonus to the story, but the magic of this is in the characters. Read this book for them. They are better than most fictionalized people you will ever meet.