'Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil' is actually non-fiction, but the book reads a little like a fictional 'Miss Marple' Agatha Christie mystery. However, 'Midnight...' has quite a dollop of thick Southern postbellum syrup spread on its infamous mix of greens-and-purple cabbage garden of a story, with a twist of Red Queen Wonderland tomatoes.The book's real-life Savannah, Georgia characters and 'plot' are handled by the author John Berendt with an amused grin and a tolerance usually only moms have for their wayward delinquent kids. The maybe murder is well known, but everything happened decades ago. Perhaps you have never heard of the story, so, I recommend looking up nothing before reading this book.Berendt walked into the murder story by accident. It appears his original plan may have been to write this book as a travelogue. But after meeting several rich idiosyncratic people who had thrived so well in Savannah they had become important philanthropic boosters in restoring Savannah's rotting old houses, one of them, a millionaire, self-made, with an 'old-South' demeanor and a seller of antiques, committed a crime Savannah couldn't forgive.Almost all of the characters Berendt profiles in 'Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil' habitually color outside the lines of propriety way beyond normal, which shocks the genuine old proper Savannah families, especially the ladies. However Savannah does not often condemn people for their sins, only for making them public. As long as the polite social forms are meticulously followed, whatever goes on behind closed doors is perfectly ok. But somenouveau richare leaving their front doors open a crack enough for a peek inside. The horror!When 'Midnight...' was first published, it was a blockbuster. People flocked into Savannah on their vacations to see the infamous locations mentioned in the book. Savannah, always genteel and accommodating where money is concerned, set up official tours. Readers, you still can find tours! Plus, documentaries were done, a movie was made:https://youtu.be/bUvm4Yd4ebATrailer to the Clint Eastwood movie.The current tours:http://www.mercerhouse.com/tickets.cfmhttp://www.savannahheritagetour.com/m...https://www.expedia.com/things-to-do/...Below is the Wikipedia entry for 'The Mercer House', now infamous for the deadly gun battle between the young street hustler, Danny Hansford and a wealthy older gentleman of Savannah, Jim Williams. But do not read this link if you wish to be unspoiled, difficult as that may be.https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merce...I won't say more, except to note there isn't a lot here about Black-Americans, other than how a few intersected with the whitenouveau richand old Savannah families as beneficiaries of white philanthropic efforts, despite the fact Black-Americans were the majority population in Savannah. Berendt mentions a few Black-American oddballs he met, who despite their poverty, had come to the attention of the owners of the mansions in Savannah's historical districts. Being slightly insane apparently helped to gain the affection of old white Savannah. The city seems a bit insane itself, ingrown as it is with a type of generational snobbery.The book chronicles the events surrounding the Mercer House and its owner in a tone of gentle amusement. The people in whom John Berendt has chosen to interest himself are truly characters who should be on a stage. Was Jim Williams guilty?(view spoiler)[I think no. I think Williams' homosexuality was on trial in Savannah, not his shooting of a violent, unstable prostitute. Maybe it was manslaughter, though.(hide spoiler)]