This is one of the cutest feel-good teen romances I have ever read. It has a bit of everything that you want... humour, a likeable protagonist and a completely swoon-worthy guy called Etienne St. Clair. You could fall in love with the name alone, even without the fact that he's sweet, kind, honest and nothing at all like any of the English boys I grew up with. It's a verycutebook, a verynicebook, neither is a bad thing but if I start mentioning words like 'cute' and 'nice' in a review you can guarantee two things: a) I liked it. b) It's not a 5 star novel.I do understand completely why people love it, but it was nothing new or unusual and didn't take me to new places emotionally or intellectually. I'm not trying to discourage people from reading it, in fact I would greatly stress that it is a delightful experience, very very pleasant to read and never challenging or mind-boggling at all. I spent my entire Sunday completely submerged in it's sweet romantic pages and could have sighed with contentment at the end. There are problems during the novel but everything works out, everyone's happy and no one dies. It's the exact opposite of the novels Anna's dad writes.Anna is a simple average teenage girl who finds herself shipped off to an American boarding school in Paris; despite the trip to France, most female readers will relate to Anna... all she really wants at this point in her life is to hang out with friends, kiss a hot boy and get asked to prom (and eventually go to college). It's hard to define exactly what it is I love about Anna, but I understood her and recognised a lot of what she felt from my own experiences during high school. Though I like characters that are new and different, Anna's familiarity made her all the more relatable and likeable.Also, Etienne St Clair is damn sexy! Even though I'm immune to the English accent thing because I live here, (with the exception of Spike in Buffy) I completely fell for the guy. It's so so nice and refreshing to have a male love interest who isn't a douche - I've missed that. And Etienne is adorable, he even blushes! So maybe he happens to be a little unrealistic... But if you want honest depictions of the teenage male, you can read someMelina Marchetta, which I would highly recommend that you do. But this novel wasn't about honesty, it was about enjoyment. I get that and I appreciate it. Thank you Ms Perkins for such a lovable read!Blog|Leafmarks|Facebook|Twitter|Instagram|Tumblr