More of my reviews can be found atFlipping Through the Pages!EDIT: This review was originally published on Sep 1st 2011 and I have since discovered I do infact enjoy contemporary novels (funny that), although this was my FIRST EVER contemporary YA book and reading back, my review sounds a bit weird tbh. Oh well.ORIGINAL REVIEW:As you may have noticed, I'm not a huge fan of contemporary fiction, ESPECIALLY contemporary romance... Oh boy, turns out I was wrong that not ALL contemporary is mind-numbingly boring. Anna and the French Kiss had me me in fits of laughter on every page and from the moment that 'Hogwarts' was mentioned, I was in love!Anna Oliphant is sent to go to school in Paris by her father against her wishes. Anna can't speak French, she doesn't want to leave her friends and family behind but once she arrives, she soon makes friends and meets Etienne St. Clair *swoons*.Reading about Anna was like reading about myself when I was 16 *what was I THINKING?* and I found I could really relate to her, particularly because of the way she would think and what she would go through with her friends and guys. The thing I loved most about Anna is that she didn't immedietely go "OMG I LOVE HIM", it took the entire novel to realise that she loved Etienne. First, she just thinks he's hot and has a hot accent, which I agree with because English accents are AWESOME. Then they become best friends, they then like eachother and then they realise they love eachother. Anna and the French Kiss is easily the best couple I've seen in YA. They hadchemistry, as in real, make-your-heart-racechemistry. I loved Anna, she was smart, funny, sarcastic, confused and flawed (she has gap-teeth, how often do you come across that in YA?)... I wish I could meet Anna, I love her, but I love her boyfriend too :S...Etienne, ahhh Etienne... Etienne.Oh I loved him! He was funny, he was hot, he was caring, sweet, short (if he was real, this wouldn't be a problem, I'm 5'3"), had issues, got drunk, got angry, got upset.... I could go on and on about how great Etienne is but you wouldn't know unless you read the book (which, I know it took me a year to read this. WHAT IS WRONG WITH ME)The secondary characters were not just there for shits and giggles, they had a purpose, they had their own stories and they were real. They swore, they argued, they laughed, they partied, they were typical teenagers!This is probably the worst review I have ever written because this is one of the best books I have ever read. Why is it always harder to review a book you love?Anyway, go read this now. Especially those who don't read contemporary (believe me, I don't), but Stephanie Perkins has created some of the most fantastic, well-rounded characters and such a beautiful, fun story I guarantee you will laugh, possibly cry, hope and swoon over this story, Anna and EtiennePS - I want to go to Paris now more than EVER.