Quoyle: A coil of rope."A Flemish flake in a spiral coil of one layer only. It is made on deck, so that it may be walked on if necessary."THE ASHLEY BOOK OF KNOTSThe above is the first thing we read on page one and a perfect introduction to our protagonist, Quoyle, a passive figure when we meet him that has been tread upon repeatedly. As it turns out Annie Proulx acquired a copy ofThe Ashley Book of Knotsat a yard sale for a quarter and it was an inspirational source that she used to cinch together her story - starting out many of the chapters with an applicable knot description quoted from it.Proulx goes on to describe Quoyle, the character, as being a large, lumpy figure with an enormous chin that he attempts to conceal with his hand more often than not; a wretched, unsuccessful man in a one-way relationship with his unfaithful wife and the mother of his two young daughters, Petal. The words 'sad sack' come to mind when I think of our introduction to Quoyle. Some very dramatic, life-altering events transpire in quick succession, leaving our sad-sack of a protagonist un-moored, allowing him to be taken up by the momentum of an aunt that heretofore he had not met, and thus the story has it's real beginning as the entirety of the remaining, and newly introduced family, make for their ancestral home in Newfoundland.Proulx's writing style is interesting in an understated yet flourishing way (as if that makes any sense). I felt almost immediately pulled in by the characters and even the slightly off-kilter (to my mind) speech patterns. I found the actual story to be somewhat dark, but optimistic, and there was an underlying humor of the self-deprecating and often 'if I didn't laugh I would cry' variety. This is a book about getting to know oneself and second chances, as well as, perseverance. More than anything else though the star of Proulx's writing is the setting, Newfoundland is an imposing force within this book.I was convinced for most of my time reading this book that I was starting out the year on the perfect foot, but for some reason once I had closed the cover I felt as though the overall impact was less than the sum of it's parts. I don't know if it had one chapter too many or about four too few, but I know that it didn't feel quite right upon it's completion. Befuddled, I guess, is the best way I can describe my ending impression, not disappointed exactly, but not quite satisfied.