"Here is an account of Quoyle, born in Brooklyn and raised in a shuffle of dreary upstate towns." A great, huge, unloved lump of a man in his late thirties, uncomfortable in his own skin, a failure at most things he's attempted in life, recently made a widower by a car accident that claimed the life of his unfaithful wife, leaving him with two young daughters to raise. And to add insult to injury, he's just lost his 'on again/off again' job at the newspaper as well.His aunt, Agnis Hamm, comes to help out and suggests that he make a clean break of things and start over--by moving with her and the kids to Newfoundland, to live in the old ancestral home out on Quoyle's Point. The house has been standing empty for the past forty years but maybe it is still habitable, and luckily, there's a job available at the weekly newspaper, writing a column on the shipping news. It's "A watery place. And Quoyle feared water, could not swim." But in the end, he is desperate enough to give it a try.Newfoundland is a harsh but beautiful island where the weather can change in an instant, the sea waiting to claim the life of the unwary or unlucky. The land, the weather, the sea are as much characters in the story as the local people who are eccentric, tough, weather-beaten, hard-working, and resilient but also accepting, friendly and willing to help.The tale of the family's adventures kept me riveted. There is even a little touch of the gothic: hints of a dark past and crazy relatives, strange weavings left on doorsteps, lights briefly glimpsed in the dead of night. And maybe Quoyle doesn't really know his aunt all that well. But there's also a great deal of laugh-out-loud humor in this story--the kind that makes you want to share with another by reading aloud.Proulx's writing style is quirky--often using short, choppy, fragments of sentences; i.e: in describing Quoyle, "Features as bunched as kissed fingertips. Eyes the color of plastic. The monstrous chin, a freakish shelf jutting from the lower face." It's one of the first things I noticed about her writing style and quite liked.This book is one of the best I've read this year. I'm only sorry it took me so long to discover it but I'm a firm believer in the belief that books come to you at the right moment, when you can fully appreciate them. I urge you to read this one soon!