As seen onThe ReadventurerWhen I first heard the details of the premise ofLaini Taylor's new book, for a moment I thought Laini must have read my review ofPersonal Demons. Inthat reviewI rant about how great story ideas are squandered away. You see,Personal Demonshad a very interesting concept - a demon and an angel battling for the soul of a human girl. There are so many creative opportunities in the angel/demon lore, I thought surely the author would make something good out of it. I was wrong then - the story turned out to be nothing more than a cliche angsty love triangle extravaganza. But I am right now.Laini Taylortook a similar angel/demon idea and transformed it into pure magic.Karou is a 17-year old art student. She lives in Prague, paints and goes to school. She is trying to get over her good-for-nothing ex-boyfriend. But there is an air of mystery about Karou. She knows magic. She has a secret life. Karou is an orphan who was raised lovingly by a foursome of demonic creatures. She occasionally runs strange errands for them; and on one of the trips she is confronted by an angelic-looking Akiva who attempts to kill her.What happens next is best described by the book's own first lines:Once upon a time,an angel and a devil fell in love.It did not end well.There is nothing cliche about this story, trust me.Laini Tayloris a writer with talent and extraordinary imagination. What I loved the most aboutDaughter of Smoke and Bonewas the world behind it. We all have read our measure of angel books and you will probably agree with me that the portrayal of angels in them rarely goes beyond wings, sexiness and some dark secret behind the "fall." But what if angels and demons are not what is traditionally/biblically accepted? What if you could get into the midst of their world, learn about their cultures, gain knowledge about their centuries-long war? What if the love between an angel and demon is forbidden and a taboo (maybe even by human standards)? Would you like to read about that? I bet you would.Lips Touch: Three Timesis one of my most favorite books ever. If you liked those stories, I doubtDaughter of Smoke and Bonewill disappoint you. This novel is equally dark, sensual, unsettling and a little twisted. The imagery is stunning. The language is beautiful, every word matters (there were a couple of slips into overwritten, I must say, but only a couple). And the love... well, it pushes boundaries, it transcends time and space.I am looking solemnly at the months of waiting ahead of me. Waiting for a copy of the book of my own to inhale every word of it again. And then for the next two books... But first, I will be waiting for this ARC cover to be changed to something that reflects the beauty of this story. I've been told to get over my cover grief already, but I just can't!