You know that book you're reading right now? How about all those books on your "TBR" list? FORGET ABOUT 'EM!I first stumbled across Laini Taylor when I was encouraged by several of my GoodReader friends to readLips Touch. So, I read it and while I enjoyed it, I wasn't blown away. However, I think it was a "It's not you, it's me" situation because anthologies and I don't really get along. I went into this book thinking it was just another PNR, Angel style. I couldn't have been more wrong. If Romeo &amp; Juliet and the story of the Trojan War had a literary baby, that in turn grew up, rebelled, and decided to have paranormal creatures in a fantasy sort of world, it would beDaughter of Smoke and Bone. Okay, that makes almost no sense. Here, let me simplify it for you:Laini Taylor..........................blew.......................................my.................................................mind...............................................................Karou is just your ordinary 17-year-old girl living as an art student in the beautiful city of Prague. She has blue hair, collects languages as birthday gifts, and runs errands collecting teeth. Okay, so maybe she's not so "ordinary." But one day, while running one of her "errands," she runs into a mysterious stranger named Akiva who attacks her. After that moment, her life forever changes and she finds herself on the cusp of unraveling the secret behind her most burning question:"Who am I?"There are some stories that make you say, "Wow! That person's imagination was going into overdrive." Harry Potter, Star Wars and the Pendragon series immediately come to mind. While readingDaughter of Smoke and BoneI was mesmerized by Taylor's vivid descriptions and she easily fits in the above category as well. As with the first time I read a Laini Taylor novel, I had to get adjusted to her unique writing style. Karou and the mystery surrounding her past are so interesting you just sucked into the story. I literally could not put the book down and it took over my life for a few days causing me to abandon a few of my responsibilities.Internal dialog:"I'll just read one more page then I cook dinner.""Well, I might as well finish this chapter since I'm halfway through it.""Dammit I forgot to feed the kids, but I'm hitting the climax...must.put.book.down."Thanks to crafty little plan of mine, AKA take-out, no one starved. That just shows you how addictive this book was for me!And let's talk about the love interest, Akiva. *sigh* Where do I begin with him?! Oh, ya! Hey Stephenie Meyer, this is how you write a tortured character. Akiva has a very real painful past that he carries with him. When he meets Karou is is drawn to her for some unknown reason and she to him. Wait, what's that you say? Isn't that insta-love? Preposterous! Laini Taylor is so above that. Don't be fooled young padewonlike I was.The first half of the book is so full of mystery it will have you begging for answers and Taylor does not disappoint. You've heard of that little rule "show, don't tell?" Well, Laini is the freakin' queen of doing just that. She shows you everything and by the end you're like:and then:I can't say anything more about this book. I refuse to spoil anything. Just go read it now!More reviews and more atCuddlebuggery Book Blog.