Finally, a book that lives up to the hype. I haven't read a book that lives up to the hype this well, actually, since Hunger Games. That's a coincidence considering that Karou has quickly earned the number two spot on my list of all-time favorite heroines...Second only to Katniss Everdeen, of course. And no, I'm not comparing this to Hunger Games in any way, just sayin'.This book came highly recommended to me from a number of people. Ever since it came out in September of 2011 I have heard nothing but great things about it. When I got about 200 pages into this story I recalled all of the great reviews and asked myself why I didn't read this sooner. The main reason is the synopsis. This is about as far as I got:Around the world, black handprints are appearing on doorways, scorched there by winged strangers who have crept through a slit in the sky.In a dark and dusty shop, a devil's supply of human teeth grown dangerously low.When I read that I didn't really feel the need to read this book as I was just like ummmm...ok...Despite the rave reviews I didn't give this book a try simply because of that. The synopsis does not do this book justice!So why do I love Karou? Why do I love any heroine, actually? They.kick.ass. Having been one of the rare characters in YA fiction that lost her virginity to the wrong guy, she felt more real. Karou is also very mysterious, and it's so exciting to find more and more details of her life as the story unfolds.The setting is Prague. That alone made the book more interesting, because it's just unique and the author's descriptions were fantastic. You will feel as if you have escaped to Prague and you are walking the streets and having lunch with Karou and her best friend, Zuzana.The plot was great too. We are taken around with Karou on all of her adventures, and the story flows beautifully. She writes in a way where things are often not just given to you, they are implied. This requires the reader to think a bit more and you gain a better understanding of what's going on if you pay attention. In turn you feel a deeper connection to Karou. This book is fantasy at it's best, but it also includes an epic romance. This is a story that breaths new life into the classic story of star-crossed lovers. The ending is superb and leaves you anxiously awaiting the sequel. It can't come fast enough.The main point is this. If you haven't read this and are considering reading it do not put it off. This book is bursting with brilliant writing, beautiful imagery, wild imagination, and it's extremely original. If you are looking for a breezy YA book that you can float through barely paying attention this is not the book for you. The writing is complex compared to many other YA books offered, and you will need to pay attention to keep up with it.Recommended!I really can't wait for the next one.