I am not going to rate this book right now. I can't say I loved this book because of the topic and the story. BUT! If I didn't feel weird, demoralized, ashamed, grossed out, and angry, then this wouldn't be a good book. V.C Andrews did great with that aspect. It is a complicated, weird mess and I can't decide what I should rate this book at this moment. Stay tuned.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------Update--------------------------------------------------------------------------------Story time (YAY): I was over my mother's house one day and she watching some movie on Lifetime. Yes, Lifetime, a horrible/laughable station. I say (jokingly) to her during some last trimester pregnant sex scene with some brother's wife, "What the hell are you watching? Why do you watch porn?" Eh, she didn't laugh, but gave me a dirty look, and said it is the sequel to the Flowers in the Attic. "Remember the children are lock in the attic in the crazy grandmother's house." Well I said I remember bits and pieces, because I never watch a movie all the way to the end. Then she recommended that I read the book, because it is good, better than the movie. I said okay, will do. So me, not really knowing what happened in the movie picked up this book at the library.This book is about a forbidden love and four "abominations" created by that forbidden love. Once the father dies, by a really tragic, unrealistic car accident, the mother and her children go and live with her parents. The children are locked in the room where they are kept in secret, until the mother can win over her father's love again.So I am going to put what I disliked about the book in spoilers.(view spoiler)[ Here are the things that I was angry about and wish I knew before I read this book. They could make people feel queasy.1. Incest- Well the whole book is about incest. The grandparents hated the mother because she married her uncle. The grandparents were crazy Christians, so you can imagine. I am okay reading about incest. We (humans) have a whole history of incest. People trying to keep their blood pure. Which sounds ridiculous nowadays, because the best thing for any species is variety. I was more in the scientific mindset. I was more or less thinking about the genetic effects. On the outside the children were beautiful, but something must be brewing up in the body.2. Rape- WELLL holy moly. The brother rapes the sister! THEN THE SISTER FORGIVES HIM AND MADE EXCUSES THAT IT WAS HER FAULT! My inner feminist raged out. I had to keep saying to myself that this is just a story.3. Mental and Physical Abuse- This was upsetting. Locked in the attic never knowing when there mother would be forgiven or when he would die. They were under the supervision of the bitch of a grandmother. At least she was up front with her hatred of the children, but the MOTHER. She is another kind of selfish evil who tried to kill the children slowly. Awful!(hide spoiler)]That is what I hated. If I didn't want to punch the grandmother in the face, spit on the mother, or become disgusted then I guess this book didn't do its job properly. I really wished I could jump into the story and save them and round house kick people in the face. Honestly, I couldn't put it down. So if you want a crazy lifetime book, read this one.