This book has stunted me emotionally; it was a much deeper than I expected it to be! I literally want to hold all the Dollanganger children and never let them go. Honestly, there are no words to describe what they had to endure so any apology or sympathetic words I could offer would do them no good. I normally don't cuss but man do I feel like letting loose on Corinne Foxworth and her mother! If there was ever such a wonderful man who existed it had to be Daddy Dollanganger; he's the epitome of a perfect father and a good husband. I'm glad he had the life he did because it made him happy but I think he'd be saddened to find out all that happened later on. I wonder if he knew all about the woman he married?One theme this book shows was that people can influence each other. Mr. Dollanganger kept his wife in the light and away from the negative influence she and her children believed would be spread by the grandparents. Cathy and Chris influenced each other to think more negative and positive about their captures and situations. The twins, Cory and Carrie, act as the two halves of each other who need each other to be truly happy. The grandparents are super evil and it is obvious that you'll hate them, but as a reader you don't know how you're going to feel about the mom. I never fully know how I felt about her except that I distrusted her and thought she was fickle and selfish. The truth is all the characters are complex and you'll feel a lot of emotions from anger, happiness, sadness, and many more as they go through so many situations that nobody would wish on their worst enemy.Thank goodness for forensic science and laws to keep names of minors out of court cases. In 1957, the period where this novel is based, science was nowhere near as developed as it was now. There are so many tests that could be done to prove what happened to the Dollanganger children. The Dollanganger children could have used all of these tools at their disposal but it was a different time and not possible sadly.