I read this book into the night, a stubborn reader determined to torture herself with the despondency that lurks throughout this novel. I tuned into the feeling that exudes a person's futile attempt to escape and I could feel the helplessness of the characters in each breath I inhaled, in the overwhelming elucidation of exile spread across each page. I was reminded a bit of Saramago'sDeath at Intervals, except that I preferred the flow of this one.Thus, in a middle course between these heights and depths, they drifted through life rather than lived, the prey of aimless days and sterile memories, like wandering shadows that could have acquired substance only by consenting to root themselves in the solid earth of their distress.One could take theThe Plagueas literal or figurative, it depends upon the reader. I took it as both. Either way, the simple message is that you lose when you're blind or ignorant, when you choose to ignore the signs of looming death, be it spiritual or physical. You lose when love is stifled and stoicism and cynicism take roots in peoples' hearts. You lose when people give up because the signs were there, right there, and the majority chose to ignore them until they found themselves affected. Yes, I'm one of those readers who see subtle messages in Camus's layered prose.Here I am again, swept away by the similarities this book shares with his other books I've read, and yet I'm still struck by the distinctiveness of this read and how it stands apart fromThe First Man, even if it embodies some of the darkness ofThe Stranger. During brief spurts, there is poetry -thus each of us had to be content to live only for the day, alone, under the vast indifference of the sky -but mostly, the prose is pointed, elegant, and just doggedly grim.Camus experienced conflict in life. He saw what happens when brothers and sisters turn on themselves, and quite frankly, a close read of this shows his constant references to war and exile. A plague sweeps across the French Algerian city of Oran and annihilates the people from the rest of the world. Although people see the signs, like the doctor who should have known, they don't want to believe it. The symbolism of dead rats permeate the narrative setup, still, people aren't alarmed as they should be until much later. By then it's too late because no one can leave and no one can enter. Some lose their loved ones, others give up on love. Mostly, people live for the present, not counting on the future because as in war and suffering, once caught in its grip, the grace of stoicism takes hold:Without memories, without hope, they lived for the moment only. Indeed, the here and now had come to mean everything to them. For there is no denying that the plague had gradually killed off in all of us the faculty not of love only but even of friendship. Naturally enough, since love asks something of the future, and nothing was left us but a series of present moments.Call it a novel of the plague. Call it a war novel. Call it a novel of death. Call it the novel of pain and suffering. Call it Camus's cry for help during his country's dismal times.