Life is brief... Camus knew this and had the fact proved first hand when he was smooshed in a car accident at the relatively young age of 46. Death is coming people and nothing can stop it. But the question is, do you ignore this fact and live in a kind of blissful fluffy world where it seems nothing can go wrong? Or do you pre-emptively stick your head between your legs and kiss your ass goodbye?Some have argued that Camus should have stuck to journalism, being a politically aware bad-ass and philosophising in short essays, rather than writing fiction. Personally I am appreciative of his multi-faceted output. After all, what is life without a bit of a variety? Presumably variety is essential as a philosopher. It probably helps alleviate any innate tendancies toward navel gazing for a start.By introducing the plague (first bubonic then pneumonia flavoured) into the sleepy colonial town of Oran, people are force to address death head on. Humans are generally unwilling to do this because the leering and bony face of death is one we like to avoid mostly (sorry Death, if you're reading this). Watching a society being forced to address its own mortality is an interesting social experiment as it encourages to the surface a number of defining characteristics. Some people immediately barricade themselves indoors fearing the worst. Others try to make a run for it ASAP and don't give a monkeys about those they are leaving behind (or the fact that they might be carriers themselves). A further group give in to gay abandon and enjoy a work free, potentially consequence free environment by embracing that fact that life is short so it may as well end with a party. Some continue to work, hoping they can rely on routine to trick them into believing that it will all be ok.Many die, some survive and by the time its nearly all over the plague has abated and the survivors are already forgetting that they were ever so close to death. Is the fact that humans can be stupid and have short memories a new and enlightening idea? Nope.Bottom line is that whichever philosophical group you fall into (you can choose between realism, rationalism, nihilism, existentialism, pragmatism and idealism to name but a few) you cannot escape the fact that death always has the final word. If anyone knows what that word is likely to be then please let me know.