*The second paragraph contains spoilers, I'd steer clear of it if you haven't read the novel*The Plague is a depressing novel about the bubonic plague. Well, that's the main gist of it, but it's mostly about how the people dealt with such unexpected horror. At first I was painfully stricken at how lifeless and boring the characters are, but the last chapter changed my perception of the novel. They are lifeless because the narrator is speaking based on his observations. He can't account for what the others are feeling, so he can only describe what he can see. He himself is part of this plague-driven city, so he tries to express how the others felt by expressing his own grief and sadness. I honestly hate novels that are not character driven, and honestly this novel should be no different, but the plot made up for it. It's thought provoking and full of allegories, symbolisms, and speculations.It's funny how the people who got quarantined chose to live their lives the dullest way that they could possibly do. They are merely surviving, and not living their lives. The worst way to live your life is to live it without knowing your true purpose and happiness. I know the plague was a devastating and life changing event, but it's how you learn to live with the consequences that counts. You can't dwell on the negatives and expect things to get better. Without the motivation to find a cure, the mere seclusion of the people would not have sufficed. Sooner or later there would be cases outside of the quarantined area, and without people trying to find a cure, it would mean total eradication. The Plague teaches you that in every devastating situation, there will always be a way out of it. The last paragraph of the book completely makes my opinion invalid, but only if you are to take in the literal sense. The author states that the Bacillus (etiological agent of the bubonic plague), hasn't been completely eradicated and would surface again in the future. He implies that past mistakes shouldn't be repeated. People now know how to stop the sickness from progressing, so what happened in the past shouldn't happen again in the future. Ignorance is one way to get yourself killed, and only you can fix that problem.I've read numerous reviews tackling on different ideas that this novel tries to portray, and I agree with most of them. I'm a bit of a beginner when it comes to classics and speculative fiction, but I'm vastly interested to explore more of the genre. My idea/s might be incorrect, I understand that, but hopefully no one would try to belittle me in the comments section. Let's try to discuss ideas like adults in the comments section. It's always fun to educate other people, but in the right manner. Don't be an ignorant asshole who thinks that all his ideas are correct and cannot be changed.This novel is only a few pages more than 300, but it took me 12 days to finish this. It's dense and doesn't really have a fast pace to it. Don't get me wrong though, I enjoyed this novel a lot despite some dull parts here and there. I'm just busy with life, and haven't really set my priorities straight, thus resulting to slower reading.4/5 stars. One of the most thought provoking novels I've read. I've yet to analyze much more about the plot, but it's 4 am and I'm feeling a bit sleepy. It's fun to talk about and analyze classics because they have substance. It's not just a novel to entertain, but it's also to educate and inspire. I can't wait to read more of Camus' works. Such a great author discovered, and I highly recommend this novel.