I know I have specific reviews for each of the books, but I just wanted to add a general review, especially for those wondering what people, especially adults, see in Harry Potter. When my brother was in junior high, he lent me his copies of books 1-4. Maybe it was because I was seeing the story through his eyes or that I wasn't expecting much from children's literature but I was surprised to find how entertaining and well written these books were. They had that "it" factor where you can't put it down and you can't stop thinking about when you do.But you've read the first book, maybe even the second, and cannot comprehend how someone would label these books as their favorite books, especially an adult?That is because the amazement, the depth, the attachment is gradual. The power of this series unfolds in books 5-7, mostly in 6.You expect me to read 4100 pages in a series and not really like it until the end?No. Read the first one and if it's entertaining (don't worry about amazement yet) read the second one. While I love the 2nd book, it's not everyone's favorite, so if you like it enough, read the 3rd which is many people's favorite. Just please don't quit until you've read the 4th. Don't worry they're quick reads. The reason I pick the 4th is because it is the pivotal book in the series. If you make it to the end of 4, you'll have to read 5 to make sure the world isn't overrun by evil. And if you read 5, you'll have to read 6 to find out how Harry could deal with such tragedy. And if you read 6, well I have no doubt you'll read 7 at that point. It's not just the cliffhanger but the ambiguity of it. You're not sure what to believe anymore at that point. And then you'll pity all of us who waited years for a resolution. So if you make it to 4, you'll be hooked.I haven't answered your question about why I find this series so amazing have I?I don't have 4100 pages, but here goes my attempt to condense all I love about Harry Potter in 7 reasons for 7 books:1. This story preys upon every child's dream to be something more than ordinary. And for all humans, it preys on our subconscious desire for there to be a little magic in life. Explain the curious and give us all something to hope for in a universe we can escape to where the rules of own do not apply.2. There's bound to be a character you relate to: the emotionally neglected boy who wants to be anything in life, that funny guy who isn't the smartest or the best looking but he knows how to make life happy, the self-motivated brain who craves acceptance through brilliance, even the kid with overbearing parents who expect much. And even the ones you don't relate to become real people as you watch them grow up, mature, and find their places in life. It amazes me that Rowling can write each character progressively from an 11-year-old child to a 17-year-old one, keeping all their personalities straight and yet evolving.3. Rowling never underestimated her position as role model nor her character's ability to shape children's life. The book is clean (minus one well-placed swear word in the 7th book which is written at a 17-year-old level). There is no sex or even heavy making out, but there are the ups and downs of relationships as well as the sorrows and joys of teenagers growing up. It's relatable. The main heroine is not stupid or boy crazy, but a girl with a good head on her shoulders. The characters care about school, work hard to achieve their goals, and are loyal friends to each other. I think Rowling made a point to include role models she'd want her own children to emulate.4. The books are fairly well written and humorous. While I think sometimes Rowling tries too hard, her writing isn't bad by any measure. I could not endorse a series with cheesy, slow, over-the-top, sordid, grammatically incorrect, wordy, choppy, incoherent, nonsensical, or any other writing style that distracted from the story.5. Each book is packed with page-turning plots. Very few places in the series ever drag and the slowest is actually vital to the storyline. The world has changed its consciousness to include Quidditch, muggles, and spell names because these books are exciting. In every book we learn something new about magic and we find Harry closer to his destiny. While we all know we are moving along to that ultimate battle, the entertainment in each book stands alone. I wouldn't have made it to end if I ever felt Rowling was trying to fill up space and time to make it there.6. The story is deep and enduring. While there is a lot of description, the story flows quickly, and that description, wow, it's there for a reason. And yes it will take you 4100 pages to fully understand why Harry's cape in 1, Tom's journal in 2, the Potters death in 3, Voldemort's bond in 4, Snape's memories in 5, and Dumbledore's hand in 6 are important. And it will amaze you. The extent of Rowling's imagination, the depth of the story, and the definitive plan from the start. You will be satisfied that this epic tale had an ending and a plan and everything works toward that end. As someone who loves symbolism, I loved the underlying themes: the universal good vs evil, Christian themes, the parallels between the Nazis and the Ministry, the statements about activists, prejudices, and so much more. There is so much that encompasses these pages.7. My absolutely favorite thing about this series is how it comes full circle. You start the series with a fun magical tale of a nobody boy who finds out that not only is there a world with witches and wizards but that he is one of the most important people in this world. Sure it's entertaining but it's not deep. Then you get to the end when you see that same boy as an adult standing in the same spot his adventures began and you start to see the story from other points of view. The second time I read the series I couldn't just see Harry's light-hearted experiences, but Dumbledore's careful hand as he guided and prepared this boy for a mission in life that not many people could handle. To see this small sad boy and know the sacrifices he had to make, somehow prepare him without letting him know the extent of the personal hell he will have to endure, and to love him enough to teach him and somehow be able to let him go in the end--well that is not a story a child could understand. That is a story for an adult.This is one series that deserves its hype and fame. The story pulls you along, the characters feel like friends, and in the end I could not close the last book without feeling like a chapter in my own life had ended. I cried. I couldn't be done with the series and I had to immediately read the entire set again to help get over my sense of loss at being done with Harry Potter. I don't get attached to many things and I cry over less, but this series is one that will always be close to my heart.