No books have influenced me the way the Harry Potter series has. It shaped me as a child, as a teenager, as a young adult, and it shaped me as a person.I don't know why. I don't know what magic they hold that makes me overlook every flaw they might have, I don't know why it was these books specifically. I can't explain it.All I know is that these books came into my life and lit up my soul in a way that I never knew was possible. Years and years later, I still re-read them and sink into that world and I just feel so alive. Hogwarts is my childhood, it is my shelter, it is my home... and it is so much more.Its influence goes beyond the page and I carry it like an amulet in my daily life. The way I perceive and question the outside world is intrinsically linked to the series: I sort the people I meet according to the Houses I think they belong in, I feel more pride at the idea of being a Gryffindor than I do for any other organization in the real world, and my fear of death has greatly dimmed - which, honestly, is an accomplishment I didn't think a book could ever achieve.If you've never read them, I feel sorry for you. I really do. My heart actually sinks in my chest a little every time I hear that because... you're missing out on so many great things, and goddammit, just exactly what are you waiting for? What are you possibly doing with your life that can justify the postponing for so many years of the best reading experience you could ever possibly imagine? They are the best series of the century, it's not like they're a secret! EVERYONE knows about these books! There's a reason its impact was so phenomenal on the world!...Anyways. So it seemed incredible and wrong that I only had a rating, and no review for these books, not when they're so important to me.Also, if you're still not convinced about how much of a hopeless groupie I am, one time I got really drunk on red wine and I ended up sobbing (LEGIT sobbing) because Iactuallyached from not being at Hogwarts.There's my 5 star rating if I've ever seen one.