I AM A POTTERHEAD.So for me, these would be the best books ever!!!No matter how other "cool" people would say that I am a geek and even too old for those books, who cares, I'm even proud of it!I know I have just read this series when I was in high school, and I just borrowed my classmate's books then, yet I am still proud to say that IT DEFINITELY CHANGED MY LIFE.Ever since I was in elementary school, I have always loved reading, and yet at some point, and I forgot how, I suddenly stopped. And when I got hold of these books from my friend, I knew I held something special and different. After reading all of the 7 books my friend lent me, I was smitten. I didn't stop to think twice and bought a box set of these books at one of the book fairs in our school because I said to myself: I've got to own all of these books! I remembered asking my parents for the money to buy that box set as my Christmas gift, even though it was only the month of August back then. Sorry, I just had to have them! :)) And thank goodness I did, because I became a part of a phenomenon, the Harry Potter Generation!I can't even find the words to justify why I love Harry Potter because there's just so many reasons. For one, I love Hogwarts and this whole magical world that JK Rowling has so graciously brought upon all of us who has read this series. Second, the way Rowling told us a story so easy to relate with and love, and which had made me laughing, crying, scared, and smile by the end of each book! Lastly, all those innumerable amount of quotes, experiences, and lessons that I have learned out of this book. I have learned the value of unconditional love through Harry's parents and actually a lot of other characters also; the power of true friendship through Ron, Hermione, and Harry, and even the Order; the value of family through the Weasley's; and the yearning for forgiveness, courage, wisdom, and happiness amidst all the chaos that may have been happening in our lives. In short, it was a fantastic and magical escape from this maddening world we're living in.I know I am no writer that could convince everyone of how amazing the harry potter books are, in the end it still is up to the reader. But let me tell you this, give it a chance, and I promise you it'll give more than what you're expecting. By the end of those 7 books, I didn't feel like I've finished another story, it felt like a chapter of my life has also ended and that I had to say goodbye to a new-found special friend. I've experienced a whole lot more than a "book and movie hangover". I literally cried after reading the last book and watching the final movie. Yes, I was that kind of shattered. So thank goodness JK Rowling's left us with words that I hold dear in my heart and I know I would remember whenever I miss Harry Potter...Because once a Potterhead, ALWAYS a Potterhead.