I wish High Fidelity had been about the friends from the music shop. They were a lot funnier than... can't remember his name. Can I just say John Cusack? John Cusack used to wear band t-shirts in all his films (notably The Clash). This guy should have been wearing t-shirts to proclaim his taste to the world. It's been a while since I've read this but I think he was listening to stuff like Arab Strap (wow, haven't listened to them in like fifteen years) and The Pixies? Anyway, I don't think it was anything particularly adventurous that every boy in high school didn't put on mixed tapes for you or that'd make you put down the book and rush onto itunes or youtube. I preferred the friends (he's too cool to admit they are his friends. Jerk!) because they liked what they liked and not just to make a t-shirt. Okay, he had enthuasism to spare, it was just the name dropping t-shirt kind, if that makes sense. The lists were for fun for them, free for all associations, and not all statement. I love passion about music 'cause then I wanna relisten and see if I can feel what they felt.Making lists is fun though. (I'll do one right now. Music most likely to make it on the soundtracks for the twoTwilight Saga: Breaking Dawnfilms:Marina and the Diamonds, Wolf Parade, Spoon, The Mountain Goats, Fleet Foxes, My Morning Jacket, Ellie Goulding, Charlotte Gainsbourg, Little Dragon, Tegan and Sara, Titus Andronicus, Mumford and Sons, Fever Ray, O. Children, IAMX, Laura Marling, The Drums and a freebie...Muse.)Sometimes the observations were funny like those movie sex scenes of the man and woman coming at the same time (like McNulty did all of the time onThe Wire). I really couldn't stand his love stories, though. I hated Charlie, and the girl he dated just to settle who dumped him unexpectedly was depressing. Or the virgin he tried to pressure into sex. All depressing. Laura's new boyfriend was hilarious.My favorite part ofHigh Fidelityis that spying on other people's collections stuff. I can't help but want to peek at books people are reading. Especially if they look like they are enjoying it (then I am jealous). I wish I had the nerve to ask people what they are reading or listening to. Instead, I obviously crane my neck and watch for that glimpse... (Goodreads is the best website ever for my spying.)If you get excited when the cool music or book clerk compliments your taste you'll probably likeHigh Fidelitymore. I recently got the snob mocking my fantasy book choices so I'm still stinging...(Another music list: Best monkey songs from former Genesis members:1. Tonight, Tonight, Tonight by Phil Collins2. Shock the Monkey - Peter Gabriel3. ..... Mike and the Mechanics might've done one. I only know "In the living years" and that's all I wanna know (didn't even wanna know that but '80s contemporary radio didn't really give me a choice).(I was all set to post the photo of the Cadbury ad of the drumming Gorilla but I don't wanna offend monkeys and gorillas with the comparisons. It's bad enough for Uncle Phil that a gorilla drums better than him. Phil should have been learning to walk upright instead of slick production skills!) (In the air tonight secretly rocks my world but this book taught me how to be snobby and I gotta show it off.)Regina Spektor's song 'Fidelity' is about this book and building yourself up with pop songs and then confusing love with those love songs that built it up. Good idea. What about Cusack and that damned boom box? That makes a better case than his depressing romantic history, fo sho.(Best animal drummers:1.2.)