**This review contains spoilers since what I have to say about this book can't be expressed without revealing details. If you haven't read this book and wish to, you should stop reading now...**If I had read this book, 'The Reader' by Bernhard Schlink a decade ago, I would have felt much differently about it than I do reading it now. This book, a thin volume at just 218 pages, presents moral situations or dilemmas which invite the reader to consider his own feelings and beliefs. I am much less rigid in my views now than I was even a decade ago. This story occurs in post-World War II Germany and centers around 15-year-old Michael Berg and a woman names Hanna Schmitz. On his way home from school one day, Michael became violently ill while on the street. As fate would have it, Hanna Schmitz was nearby and helped Michael get back to his home. Michael was ill with hepatitis for quite some time but when he began to feel better, he sought out Hanna to thank her for her assistance. Michael and Hanna.. a woman more than twice his age.. began a sexual relationship, creating the first of several dilemmas in this story.Although I personally did not find this aspect of the story romantic or erotic, given my understanding of adolescent hormones and adult loneliness, I wasn't at all surprised by the development of this relationship. Putting moral issues aside and looking at this relationship from a reasonable and logical viewpoint, a relationship with a person who never calls you by your given name but simply 'kid' is probably an omen. Also, any relationship which is secret is never a healthy one. secrets isolate the people involved from family, friends and peers... so this relationship, to me, was doomed from the outset. And as I expected, one day, Hanna simply disappeared.. leaving Michael with no explanation but with plenty of guilt. he couldn't stop wondering if he had done something which forced her to leave. Michael had no way of knowing it at the time but Hanna was on the run, not from him but to conceal certain truths about herself.It was years later that Michael saw Hanna again. By this time, he was studying law and his education was coinciding with Nazi War Crimes trials occurring in various towns. Michael's law seminar was encouraged to attend a trial which was taking place in a neighboring town. The students and professors would be following the trial of a group of women camp guards. The law students were ambitious in their agenda and relentless in discovering the truth. They were interested in defining.. "What IS law? Is it what is on the books, or what is actively enacted and obeyed in society?" What was occurring in Germany at that time was that the younger generation was examining and discussing the crimes perpetrated during World War II so that they could discover the degree of guilt and responsibility which should be assigned to their elders. I should mention that what the students were doing was not particularly popular nor was it welcomed by some people in society. The trials being held didn't hold much interest for some and "literally repelled others."I found this particular section of the story to be compelling and of great interest. I, of course, was not all that surprised by the citizens who wished to avoid these trials or who wanted to forget about what had happened. I was intrigued by the enthusiasm of the students who were determined to display all the facts.. withholding nothing... so that the responsibility and culpability of society could be determined. I suppose this can be explained as the zealotry that often characterizes youth. And of course, it was most likely difficult to avoid dealing with these issues completely when the country had been forced onto the world stage to account for war crimes.. crimes against humanity. But I couldn't help but think about Germany's reluctant assent to shine a light on the atrocities that had been committed and compare it to how the United States has typically handled the atrocities it has committed over the years. Usually, this country (the US) develops a sort of collective amnesia. Then we simply rewrite history so that it is clear to anyone who questions that we have a mandate bestowed upon us from God because we are an 'exceptional' or special people. It's definitely something to consider if you ever find yourself wanting to condemn the actions of another country....When Michael Berg walked into the courtroom, he immediately noticed Hanna Schmitz. Hanna had been one of the women camp guards and now she would be expected to account for her actions. The scene was highly dramatic and I could feel the pieces of the puzzle which had been Hanna Schmitz, begin to fall into place for Michael. Her behaviors... her reticence to talk about herself and her life.. began to make sense for the first time.But Hanna was holding tightly to one more secret... a secret she would rather die for than have it exposed to the world. Michael finally put the missing pieces together.. her running away, her inability to stay with any one job for long and even her recruitment by the Nazis to guard women prisoners at Auschwitz ... all of this had been to keep the fact that she was illiterate from the world.I have to admit that although the clues were there in the story, I had not guessed that Hanna's big secret was her illiteracy. Up until that big reveal, Hanna had not been a sympathetic nor an understandable character. But when I realized that she was illiterate, I couldn't help but feel compassion for her. Perhaps she was not deserving of compassion because any sympathy shown to her was far more than she had demonstrated to the women prisoners whose lives she controlled. But illiteracy has a personal meaning for me. Several years ago, after the death of a family member, our family discovered that this family member had been illiterate . He had been able to keep this secret through the diligence and aid from his wife for more than 50 years. It was a shocking revelation and all I could think about was the huge amount of energy he must have expended daily to hide this from his family, his co-workers.. from the world. His obvious shame and humiliation were all I could think about and it broke my heart. And Hanna's illiteracy... it was something I could not only imagine but feel a personal connection to. I believe Michael felt that sense of compassion for Hanna as well.. although he felt it wasn't an excuse for her actions. Instead of reporting this discovery to the judges, he allowed her to keep her secret.. even though it meant she would spend a much longer time in prison. Did Michael do the right thing? I think in realizing that allowing Hanna to maintain her privacy and dignity was more important than potentially having her prison sentence reduced.I have been thinking about this story a great deal.. even though I finished reading it days ago. To me, the story of Michael Berg and Hanna Schmitz was not simply their singular, personal story. What occurred in their lives seemed somehow symbolic of the tragedy of a nation... of the world... tragic events which the entire world talks about, writes about and tries to make sense of more than seven decades later.