--an edition with images from the 2008 movie,The Reader(which I haven't seen), with Kate Winslett in the character of Hanna Schmitz and Ralph Fiennes as Michael BergWhen I was in my early 20s, I fell in love with somebody I could not have, that is, he was not the marrying kind. After a while a friend of mine, a slightly older contemporary, told me that man I loved was bisexual, which ended my attraction, just like that. I wasn't repulsed--nothing like that; but the bond was broken.I had another female friend, a fellow graduate student, who had an affair with the head of the facility where we both were doing our internships. She broke off with her boyfriend, for how could someone her same age compete with the attentions of the powerful established male? Subsequently, she never married, never had children.Those affairs in academia between male professors and female students have only recently come to be considered wrong--an abuse of power. Think Arendt and Heidegger, or even Abelard and Heloise. (Yes I know he got in big trouble, but it was for damaging Heloise's uncle's property, not for sexually abusing a person in his custody.)In my own situation, the young man was my same age, possibly a factor. And I never even found out for sure if he were really bisexual. But in any case, not all romantic attraction ends when the object of affection turns out to be unsuitable. Think of the movieThe Crying Game, in which Stephen Rea's character maintained some sort of fixation on Jaye Davidson's character, even after he found out all was not as it had seemed.--Stephen Rea and Jaye Davidson inThe Crying Game, 1992Sometimes, who one loves, or, maybe, who one becomes imprinted on, is unaccountable. But the impact--in these cases, the distorting impact--is real.Not to mention the impact of history and context within which our loves and attachments are set. What a complicated scenario this book describes: the consequences of wrongness along multiple dimensions, through and through.You could tell from the title that this book is about reading:I began with theOdyssey. I read it after Gertrud and I had separated. There were many nights when I couldn't sleep for more than a few hours; I would lie awake, and when I switched on the light and picked up a book, my eyes closed, and when I put the book down and turned off the light, I was wide awake again. So I read aloud, and my eyes didn't close. And because in all my confused half-waking thoughts that swirled in tormenting circles of memories and dreams around my marriage and my daughter and my life, it was always Hanna who predominated, I read to Hanna. I read to Hanna on tape....In general I read to Hanna the things I wanted to read myself at any given moment. With theOdyssey, I found at first that it was hard to take in as much when I read aloud as when I read silently to myself. But that changed. The disadvantage of reading aloud remained the fact that it took longer. But books read aloud also stayed long in my memory. Even today, I can remember things in them absolutely clearly.Also, it's about writing:When I began writing myself, I read these pieces aloud to her as well. I waited until I had dictated my handwritten text, and revised the typewritten version, and had the feeling that now it was finished. When I read it aloud, I could tell if the feeling was right or not. And if not, I could revise and record a new version over the old. But I didn't like doing that. I wanted to have my reading be the culmination. Hanna became the court before which once again I concentrated all my energies, all my creativity, all my critical imagination. After that, I could send the manuscript to the publisher.