SPOILER FREE review if you will not open the spoiler tagsHow does one describe Artemis Fowl? Various psychiatrists have tried and failed.WORLD-BUILDINGAll the fairies, elves, dwarves, goblins, trolls live in the underground world. This world has its own technology which is beyond our comprehension and have their own laws.CHARACTERSArtemis Fowl[of course](Doesn't this name sounds Awesome!!!)No need to say, he is a super genius criminal. You know how old he is? Just 12 YEARS! Doesn't it sound odd. An adolescent, with such intelligence who is devoted to crime. But that's what makes this book different in my opinion.I loved him. I loved how he is written. I loved his every move. I loved his thinking. OMG what should I say more that I loved him sooo much! Probably my most favourite male protagonist I have ever read.ButlerHis bodyguard. He is the most trusted and faithful guy of Artemis Fowl. And also his partner in crime. Loved him also.Holly ShortShe is an elf and a captain in LEP (police in the underground World)FoalyA centaur. He is an inventor. Almost the underground police uses his weapons and thinking.He is written as a wise character. But sometimes he got on my nerves.(view spoiler)[ Sometimes he prolonged the dialogues. Without any reason. Just for fun.(hide spoiler)]Overall I liked him.OVERVIEWFowls are the legendary criminals. They do every kind of illegal things for making money of course. But their fortune isn't for soo long. By the fault of Artemis Fowl 1, Protagonist's father, fortune of Fowl's Family gets away. He disappears in an attack. Due to this, Protagonist's Mother, becomes a mental patient.Artemis Fowl 2 vows to regain the family's fortune. By a very unique way:(view spoiler)[ He finds a book of fairies and gets to know everything about them. Then he plans to kidnap the fairy to get money.There is a ritual necessary to do for fairies to recharge their powers. But our second protagonist, Captain Holly, is little lazy to do so. During the case, she is founded low magical by her commander. So her commander orders her to perform the ritual to regain the magical powers otherwise she cannot enter the underground world again.While performing the ritual, she is kidnapped by Artemis Fowl. He blackmails the underground police for money in form of: 1 tone 24 carat gold.(hide spoiler)]THINGS I DIDN'T LIKE=&gt;I couldn't like the writing style. I don't know why it seems to me that author was too hard to choose words. I didn't face wording problems while reading my recent books. But this was different. Anyways, different authors have different styles. Maybe I felt that because, this book is written by an Irish writer.=&gt;(view spoiler)[ I wasn't satisfied with what happened to the gold in the end. It seemed useless to me. What was the benefit for such hard work.(hide spoiler)]Overall, I enjoyed this book! It is full of action and excitement. Author will not let you to take rest till the ending.I hope I will enjoy this series as much as this one.Thanks for your attention!(^__^)December 31, 2016