"Well now, she's a real interesting little thing," persisted Matthew.Truer words were never spoken when the whirlwind known as Anne Shirley comes to live with siblings Matthew and Marilla Cuthbert at Green Gables.In one terrific example of cosmic trickery, the Cuthberts, who were hoping to adopt aboyto help out around the farm, are sent instead a garrulous and imaginative, red-headedgirl. Matthew takes to her immediately. Marilla needs some convincing."Matthew Cuthbert, you don't mean to say you think we ought to keep her!"Marilla's astonishment could not have been greater if Matthew had expressed a predilection for standing on his head."Well now, no, I suppose not -- not exactly," stammered Matthew, uncomfortably driven into a corner for his precise meaning. "I suppose -- we could hardly be expected to keep her.""I should say not. What good would she be to us?""We might be some good to her," said Matthew suddenly and unexpectedly.Poor Anne, who has spent her brief life in foster homes caring for the children of drunkards, or penned up in an orphan's asylum, is devastated."You don't want me!" she cried. "You don't want me because I'm not a boy!"But, of course she gets to stay, and as Matthew predicts, they are indeed good for her. The surprising thing is how goodsheis forthem. Anne's unbounded enthusiasm for the world around her is infectious, and before long, Marilla finds herself reminded of the young girl she once was."All sorts of mornings are interesting, don't you think? You don't know what's going to happen through the day, and there's so much scope for imagination."Imagine Anne's delight at seeing Prince Edward Island for the first time.If you ever need a reminder of how amazing the world can be, look no further than Montgomery and her plucky, indomitable heroine.Green GablesThis book is my comfort food - my grilled cheese with tomato soup, my hot chocolate on a cold winter's day, my cupcakes with sugary frosting."Dear old world," she murmured, "you are very lovely, and I am glad to be alive in you."