Has anyone not heard of this book yet?I see one hand up there towards the back! You! Yes, the one next to the potted fern.Ok. Well, then this review is foryou. Everyone else, feel free to hit the buffet!Pile your plate high! I've been trying to get rid of that seafood salad for a few days...Does The Martian really needone moreglowing review?No. No, it does not.But I'm going to do it anyway. Because even though I'm the last person on the planet to read this one, I still feel the need to put in my two cents worth.So this is set in the very near future, when manned missions to mars are somewhat commonplace, but not all futuristic and cool. The technology is much like moon landings...just farther away. Nobody watches the launches anymore, and nobody remembers who the crew members are anymore.But everything changes when a freak accident strands astronaut Mark Watney on Mars.In a crazy-bad storm on the surface, Watney gets stabbed with flying debris, knocked away from his crew, and his suit's vital readings flatline. They're forced by the storm to abandon the mission, and head home weighed down with the knowledge that their friend and crew member was dead.The memorial service on Earth for Mark was lovely.Except he's not dead. Due to some sciency mumbo-jumbo, his suit sealed itself around his coagulating blood, and he wakes up all alone on a planet that's determined to kill him.However, he's a really smart boy with a good sense of humor, and those two things carry him through the rest of the story. He knows that another mission is scheduled to land several years down the road, and after getting to (relative) safety inside this dome/tent/trailer-thingy, he starts hatching ways to survive until they can arrive.Ok. Science isn't my strong suit. I'm not even going to pretend to tell you I understood much of anything Mark did to survive. And the downside of someone like me reading a book like this is that there'sA LOTof it that blew over my head.Garble-mumble molecule + Mumble-garble molecule = Fizzy-pop moleculeWhich means Mark survives for another day!WHOOSH!Between the science (damn you, smart people!) and the diary/log way that most of this story is written, you'd think I would've hated this sucker. But I didn't! And part of the reason may have been because it's not an overly long book. I picked it up, was hooked by the first few pages, and ended up finishing it in 2 days. Watney is an accessible character that made me giggle, and I was rooting for him for his entire journey.So, yeah, I'd recommend this one.It's a smarty-pants book even us dummies can read &amp; love!Plus, he uses duct tape. Proving, once again, there'snothingyou can't do as long as you have that stuff.