In the early part of the nineteenth -century there arose in northern England, ( well one by the border of Wales) two powerful magicians, old bookworm Gilbert Norrell of Hurtfew Abbey, always reading in his immense, dark library, obscure, ancient, dusty books on the subject that he cares only about, magic, and young, tall Jonathan Strange, who inherited like his future short friend, tutor and rival Mr. Norrell, (not interested then, in wizardry) a vast amount of property and money. Around the city of York magic flourished, both resided in small villages many miles from the unknown other, Mr. Strange is quite different from the mysterious recluse Gilbert, no books of the supernatural, soon to be married, likes to get out of his house, (Ashfair) mingle with people, have fun and live...In the Fall (Autumn) of 1806, a society of magicians in York, met every week in a rundown inn and discussing, ( sometimes tempers flare) what else, magic, that they were amateurs and couldn't do any spells, didn't matter, passion was the only importance . Sending letters to the private Mr.Norrell, after discovering he was the true article, a practicing, accomplished man , in the fine art of conjuring, asking him to appear at their next meeting, he declines, they write back a disrespectful note; a contract is drawn up, the angry magician does show his skill in the city's Cathedral, only his servant John Childermass is present, the frightened society of not able men see stones move, they quickly disband as the agreement stated... The bored Mr.Strange, doesn't know what should be his profession, his would be fiancee Arabella, is anxious to know before consenting to marry him, nothing interest, the rich man except an unusual, vague liking of magic... and the weird thing is, he's good at it. Newspaper stories about this incident at the church, makes Mr.Norrell famous in London, he travels there, yet it takes many parties and gatherings, to reach his goal, he has a few friends to tell him what is required , time passes by, finally meeting influential government officials, after bringing back a dead woman to life, he can be useful to the authorities in fighting Napoleon...making phantom ships, that scare the French. Naturally Jonathan Strange wants to talk to the great Mr.Norrell, visits him in the capital and impressed by his abilities, the famous enchanter makes Jonathan, his pupil, but of course they get on each others nerves. And still an almighty, odd, evil spirit, a faerie, much more fearsome, than either of the magicians, lurks about bringing death and destruction, everywhere. ..The government takes the young man to Portugal, to help the Duke of Wellington, (at first not taken seriously, by the unruffled general ) fight the French invaders, crisscrossing that nation and Spain also, fixing roads, confusing the enemy, changing the course of rivers, the bloody battles go on year after bloody year, he, Mr.Strange, becomes immune to the carnage...This fantasy, an alternative history of Britain, is a wonderful fable for anyone interested in magic, makes it seem that it really exist , nevertheless, will entertain and bring pure joy to those people, the grateful readers, that want to be intrigued.