Most books are not for everyone, and it can occasionally be hard to determine from a cover, a blurb, a sample chapter if something will be for you or not. And even if you believe something is for you, the book still needs to reveal and unfold and delight and surprise and strike emotional chords and climax and conclude to your satisfaction by its end, all while also possessing a writing style you respond to or at least does not detract from your enjoyment. So its sometimes a wonder we like any books at all when the stakes and standards are set so high. AndJonathan Strange &amp; Mr Norrelldoes not go out of its way to recommend itself to a new, uninitiated reader: its length both actual and perceived can certainly intimidate and inspire dread, the vast peppering of footnotes can be wearying, and the hybrid nature of its style and genre - an alternate history fantasy of early 19th century England written in a Dickensian-Austenian manner that is self-aware and sly, touching on style points like the Gothic and romantic novel and the Byronic hero, and plot points like war with Napoleon, Lord Byron, North-South England divides, the madness of King George III, relations between servants and their masters. Add to this of course magic, magic of a nebulous and free variety, no hard and fast system, not lots of smoke (though many mirrors), nothing too showy or special, a magic of an earthy, grounded, but still foreign, complicated, dangerous variety, complete with an entire history of magic in England from the 12th century and a whole host of anecdotes and tales and figures from said history that inform the present ideas, intentions and actions. All of these disparate forces and ideas and characters and influences joined together in one place, and meant to be read as one complete work, of over a thousand pages (in my edition, and perhaps understated considering there are two and three page footnotes worked in as well)? This truly is not a book for everyone.But if you read and were intrigued by my sprawling summary, and like reading things in a 19th century style or pastiche, and enjoy fantasy but don't need it to be as obvious or clear cut as modern fantasy novels typically show it, if you think it might be for you and are ready to commit to the novel's length and slow unfolding and building of events and ideas, then I wholeheartedly encourage you to pick up a paper copy, not least because the sheer number of footnotes would be highly aggravating to read in an e version, and settle yourself into bed or a large armchair or your sofa and begin.Because ifJonathan Strange &amp; Mr Norrellisn't for you, you'll be irritated or wearied by it and put it aside. But if it is for you, like it is for me, it is likely to vault amongst your most favorite, beloved books, something to re-read again and again, an old, familiar friend to turn to when new reads aren't hitting the mark as near as you'd like, and yet because of its depth and richness and length and detail, you'll find something new that strikes you every time. When this book is for you, despite my version ending on page 1006, I still crave more. More of charming and arrogant and a bit absent minded but intelligent Strange (though perhaps a bit less of the Norrell of most of the book but I am a biased Strangeite, I admit), more of Arabella, more of her fascinating anti-hero of Childermass, more of the soft Mr Segundus, more appearances of Lord Wellington (whose portrayal seems both accurate and inspired), more Stephen Black and much, much more of the Raven King and the magic of England. And I love Susanna Clarke's style, and her all-knowing narrator is filled with dry wit and humor in describing events and characters. For me the writing pulls the entire ambitious thing together, its craft and execution as important as the characters and plot for me.I know that most books you won't know until you read them if they are or aren't for you. And sometimes a book is not for you at one time, but then later is, or vice versa. But I have loved this book for over a decade, from my first, somewhat challenged read of it in 2004 when it was first published as a teenager, to now, and this is truly not a book I love from nostalgia, but for itself. I wouldn't even say it holds up well: even though I don't believe it to be perfect, I read it and am enthralled and amused and delighted and pensive every time, and though I do read it in a new light each time, I am always swept away by it. I probably read this once a year and have done so since it was first published, and can't see any reason why that would change in the future.I dearly hopeJonathan Strange &amp; Mr Norrellis for you. If you think it may not be, or start it and don't quite connect, let it pass: it is too long and coiled and difficult to pin down to waste time or effort on it if you don't like it. If you read the whole thing and don't like it, I would love to hear your feedback. But if you've read it and know it's for you, then I'm so glad someone else loves this strange, unique, fantastic yet sober tale. And if you haven't yet read it but you think this may be for you, then I'm overjoyed and somewhat envious that you can encounter and discover this novel and its world for the first time.