This is a magnum opus. If the author never writes another book, she can still be immensely satisfied because this is a masterpiece (which is not to say that I don't want more).Quite some time ago my attention was drawn to a TV show of the same name on Amazon Prime. I read the description and since I can never stay away from magic for very long, I watched it eventually - and fell in love with the peculiar and quirky people starring in this tale of magical adventure, love and loss.It was only later that I was told it was based on a book (I really should know better by now). Naturally, after having fallen in love with the bantering magicians as well as the scheming faerie, I had to read it and what months are better for such a tale full of crisp misty mornings in the English countryside than October or November?We start by getting introduced to Mr. Norrell, a quite wealthy English gentleman who considers himself a practical magician. In fact, he considers himself the only actual English magician. Considering the "society" of magicians he encounters right at the beginning (a bunch of fools, mostly), I completely understand why and supported his claim.He is a bookworm par excellence as can be seen much later when his pupil, the also titular Jonathan Strange, is sent to aid Lord Wellington in the war against Bonaparte and Norrell is supposed to give him 40 of his books to which he cries out in terror (he is told by a member of the government that sacrifices must be made in times of war to which he exclaims "Yes yes, but FORTY!"). *lol* What I mean to say is that this quirky side of Mr. Norrell is all of us.However, he also has a darker side as he wants to forbid magic to anyone but himself (and later Mr. Strange). He wants to control every aspect of magic and, indeed, humans and often succeeds in doing so - for example by buying all the books about magic that are left (since he's rich, he can get them more easily than others with less of an income).One day, when he desperately tries to get patronage from an influential politician, he performs a spell that summons a faerie. But as we all know, summoning such a creature and asking it for help always comes at a price and Norrell, for all his theoretical knowledge, isn't cunning/learned enough not to get tricked by the fickle creature.Not long after that, Jonathan Strange enters the picture. He is not as much of a bookworm as Norrell and far better at being outgoing and social and therefore has more "friends". He is also married to the charming and intelligent Arabella.What Jonathan Strange lacks in magical books, he more than makes up for in creativity, passion and talent. As mentioned above, he becomes Norrell's pupil but after a while it becomes clear that this will not do. The two have too contrary an opinion about the future of English magic with Jonathan Strange wanting as many magicians as possible to revive the glory of the old days and, if possible, to bring back the Raven King (once ruler of England and a part of the faerie realm).After having fought in the war against Napoleon Bonaparte he has also learned something Norrell probably never will: to perform useful magic almost on the spot.The problem is that these two are up against a force they know nothing about for the faerie Norrell once summoned is scheming and since faeries are not just using magic but are magical creatures, the two magicians are out of their league. But there is also a prophecy about all these events so perhaps the Raven King has taken precautions all these hundreds of years ago?And how many people will the faerie take to Lost Hope (his domain within the faerie realm)?One would think that I've told you too much of what is happening but I really haven't. This isn't even scratching the surface. However, while this book is certainly what people call a doorstopper, it was never ever boring. Sure, the pace is slower than in other novels but that was done deliberately. While there are some scenes that could be described as "full of action", that's not what this tale it's about.It's about the character and heart of magic, about all that enchants us so much when we hear old fairy tales. It's about the relationship of the titular characters to one another (a more magnificent pair I've scarcely seen in literature) and to others. It's about friendship, love, betrayal, being socially awkward, making mistakes, shame. It's about a black servant as much, if not even more, as about the fair English lady he serves. It's about the tumultuous years shortly before, during and a while after the Napoleonic Wars. It's about the heart and soul of a people, the history of a country, and every individual's place in the world.Just as remarkable as the tale itself with all its purposefully meandering ways is the enchanting writing style of the author. It sounds authentic, it feels authentic, every word casts its very own spell and transports one through the English rain and mirrors into this candle-lit world with its moving stone statues and sand horses. I was equally delighted about the narrator, Simon Prebble (what a great name!), as he did a most fantastic job in voicing this just as I want my English tale to sound.As can be seen from my status updates, I alternated between the audiobook and my print version as my hardcover had these gorgeous and very fitting illustrations rounding off an already glorious reading experience (and yes, they nailed each and every cast member on the show in case you were wondering).I'm so glad I let myself be taken to this magical place and am now itching to revisit it already (either by reading the collection of short stories linked to the school of Arabella's brother or by watching the show again).P.S.:The King's roadsandsand horsesare still two of my favourite spells performed here.