I'm in bed - again -today with some type of nasty bug - a relapse from last week...a traveling flu bug? cold? allergies? It's now in my chest...Right when I'm reading the interview on Goodreads from Fredrick Backman about his new-HIT- novel BEARTOWN - my doorbell rings. A delivery guy brought a huge vase of flowers from our daughter, Katy. Tomorrow is Mother's Day! (sweet daughter)Paul got the door - brought the flowers to the nightstand next to my bed. I told Paul what I had just read about Fredrick Backman. ( brought back memories for us)When Backman was asked what his favorite books were, he said...."his biggest hero is Astrid Lindgren who wrote "Pippi Longstocking" and his favorite book of all time "The Brothers Lionheart".....,( a book I'm now curious to read myself).....Paul and I immediately started thinking about our daughter who played the title role of Pippi Longstocking in the world premiere Bay Area musical when she was 11 years old. While looking at my mother's Day flowers from our 35 year old daughter.... Fredrick brought back an abundance of memories.The copy of this book is packed away in a keepsake box. It's filled with lots signatures from cast members... congrats- luv notes from mom &amp; dad.The play was performed at The Montgomery theater - downtown San Jose. Tons of production work went into a 'new pre-premier' musical.In the opening scene ....Katy had those red funny looking braids in her hair -A red and white striped T-shirt.... Red and white striped leggings... and roller skates on her feet. The stage was empty... The opening musical number begins with her skating onto the stage singing a very catchy solo tune - long run-together-rhythmic- sentences singing - while skating - that she is "Pippi Longstocking", The strongest Little Girl in the World"...The play followed the book - plus music. -- Great story... with a monkey - a horse - and two best friends. Great cast - fun show - lots of happiness from everyone.There is one very sad part of this memory. About six months after this show ended - the director ( not musical director), died of AIDS. It was the very first person that our daughter knew who died of AIDS. He was a young talented wonderful man. Before he died...( a couple of weeks before)..... there was a huge "life celebration" in Don's honor. Don was in a wheelchair at Vasona Park. Families and friends, people in his theater world kids in the Pippi show all came. I remember like yesterday. Still brings tears to my eyes. -- so.... Pippi was the last play he directed too!If I had not read "The Goodreads", interview with *Fredrick Backman*, today ( mail backed up for weeks)....I would have missed this recall memory....Thank you .... for those who read this.Wishing ALL THE CARETAKERS of children ... and Mothers everywhere a HAPPY MOTHER'S day tomorrow!!!!