The White City rises above the lake like a fantasy from another time that never existed but the eyes do not deceive this image is real, bright lights glow at night and millions of respectful , quiet, mesmerized people look and walk by, the moon shines and reflects on the gigantic white buildings and glittering waters, magic drapes all...The Chicago World's Fair of 1893 arguably the greatest one in history, the citizens of this metropolis the second city of the nation need to show everyone that they are more than hog killers, with speeding trains and prosperous businessmen , this is a sophisticated town particularly to arch rival New York . In a short while after winning the contest to hold this extravaganza beating St. Louis, Washington and the big enemy New York City for the honor from Congress the next step yes committees , Americans love them they multiply like rabbits but get in the way of progress. At long last emerging from countless delays, officially named the "World's Columbian Exposition" to commemorate the 400th anniversary of Columbus's discovery of America, in 1492, but its six months run will start a year later in 1893. A leading Chicago architect Mr. Daniel Burnham and his partner John Root are chosen for the enormous job to build it, but also residing in the overcrowded fast growing, violent, dirty city Dr. Herman Webster Mudgett alias (one of many ) H.H.(Henry) Holmes, America's first well known serial killer. The two will never meet but their stories will make headlines around the globe. Mr. Burnham task seems impossible, made worse when his closest friend in business and in private life dies John Root, the committees don't and can't make decisions; days pass still nothing is being accomplished, at last the authority is granted him to be the boss, Burnham (" Make no little plans; they have no magic to stir men's blood"). Slowly things begin to appear on a grand- scale the white, ( all the same color) huge, electrified buildings soaring into the sky, the scary, new Ferris Wheel will take you there if it is ever built, lagoons are made islands formed canals dug the waters come from sparkling Lake Michigan, boats follow, the ugly, empty Jackson Park begins to fill, something special even at this early stage is felt...Dr.Holmes likes pretty young women , just off farms and small towns, the feelings are mutual he pays attention to their every word, looks into their eyes, touches them gently the handsome, soft, well spoken con man has plenty of charm few are not enamored, wealthy too, owner of the strange rather gloomy, with mysterious odors the World's Fair Hotel nicknamed "The Castle ", he keeps marrying the women a real lady killer...but will murder men too. This nonfiction book is very entertaining and always informative, you can imagine yourself back to the spectacular, enormously successful , thrilling, magical fair the numerous attractions in hundreds of buildings, from the very popular, exotic , belly dancers to the unsuitable Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show , he made a fortune just outside the exposition grounds , they don't make this kind anymore..