'The Devil in the White City' is an excellent retelling of historical events which surrounded the 1893 Chicago World's Fair. The author stuck to the written records - newspapers, memoirs, books - and we get surprisingly intense stories based on facts. The individuals involved with building the World's Fair exhibits wanted to make something amazing - and they did, at great risk to their Victorian reputations and physical health.Among the amazing things that people saw were skyscrapers, high-end Pullman cars, electric lights and the first Ferris wheel ever made. Plus, belly dancing. Belly dancing! Who knew bellys could move like that! was the shocked response of most paying customers. The promised cannibals almost were a no-show, but eventually made it; however, the advertised pygmies were not found in Africa in time for the fair (despite the permission given to kidnap them, if necessary). The Wild West show arrived with real (!?!) cowboy and Indian battle demonstrations. Annie Oakley starred, and packed the crowds in even when the Fair itself was not selling tickets as much. Somehow, the sum of things was far larger than the details by the end of the day, and Larson does a fantastic job of illustrating how flawed and quarreling, yet talented, architects made it all happen.Many ordinary people with a variety of hopes and plans found themselves swept up in the excitement and came to Chicago looking to change their lives with the opportunities presented by the fair - and ended up in the clutches of a suave, handsome, charismatic hotel owner who was not what he seemed. Everyone profiled in the book was looking for a fresh beginning and an opportunity to realize their happiness, no matter how insignificant their ambition. Unfortunately, psychotic murderers find their happiness in watching others die - literally - and they come to fairs, too. In this book, we learn in particular about a Mr. Holmes, a documented killer.I thought I would include a link to a White City documentary:https://youtu.be/cpOQE5KJJdsThe dark/light duality of human nature is fully on display in these brief chapters of American history. What was new then or not known about human behavior in the 1890's is now fully integrated knowledge in our present. Obviously, we still have not yet discovered how to identify and make harmless those who live for the dark, though.The author is a wonderful writer first, historian second. Despite the dryness of some of the material (for me, not everything architectural design makes for enchantment), I was drawn into caring about these ambitious individuals, whatever their faults and idiosyncrasies and class snobberies, serial killer excepted. It was interesting how strikingly familiar circus spectacles to me were as enticing to the Victorian as it was to the Ancient Greeks and as to current moderns.