Neuromanceris a most peculiar novel that deserves a peculiar review. So,THREE PEOPLE WHO WILL (PROBABLY) NOT LIKENeuromancerAND THREE PEOPLE WHO (PROBABLY) WILL:THREE PEOPLE WHO WILL (PROBABLY) NOT LIKENeuromancer1. The Reader With Delicate SensibilitiesDoes swearing, violence, lots of sex, and drug use sends a shiver of disgust down your spine? Then this is likely not the book for you. Though it rarely veered into territory that made me uncomfortable,Neuromancerrefuses to be censored and depicts acts of deviancy with unique prose. You're not likely to find stabbings that are "silicon quick" or sex and violence described in such vibrant neon hues anywhere else. Yet part of the appeal of this novel is a culture that has been rapidly altered by technology, one that is not so unlike our own present. Things that you might find deviant in this novel are presented as perfectly acceptable within the confines of Gibson's future.2. The Reader Looking For A Casual Sci-Fi NovelNeuromanceris assuredly not a typical science fiction novel, but it is undoubtedly a classic in the field. Gibson rarely leaves space for the reader to catch up to the fast-paced nature of his story, opting instead for repeat, strobe-like, in media res chapters. What a mind Gibson must have to have created a world that isn't easily understandable, but relentlessly believable. Some terms are never explained and the onus is placed on the reader to figure out exactly what has taken place. As I was contemplating how to write the review for this novel, I kept thinking that the exposition is best described as impressionistic. The world may not be described in terms that we all understand, but it surely captures the feeling of living in an extremely strange future.3.The Reader Who Loves Everything to be Neatly Tied UpThough there may be sequels toNeuromancer, I fully plan on treating this like a stand-alone novel. Case, the tale's protagonist, is a hacker in a futuristic world where one connects to the Matrix (think advanced internet, not Wachowoskis) through a port in your skull. Case is cut-off from the Matrix after a hacking deal gone bad, and is made an offer to be restored in exchange for an extremely dangerous hack. Case is surrounded by an eclectic cast of characters who help to peel back the layers of this complicated world. Though the main heist/hacking story is resolved by the end of this novel, there's a lot of high-concept sci-fi that is left up to the reader to consider. If you want a decisive rather than contemplative ending, you should probably avoidNeuromancer.THREE PEOPLE WHO WILL (PROBABLY) LIKENeuromancer1. The High School/University StudentI think almost everyone has to read1984orBrave New Worldas part of Western education. Well, I'd be hard pressed to think of a reason whyNeuromancershouldn't sit alongside them as sci-fi with important messages, and literary depth. Though the world isn't strictly dystopian, the characters are living in a world that is consumed by technology, physical modification, and a wide selection of narcotics. Sound in any way familiar?Neuromancerwas written in a time where the shape of the internet's influence was being contemplated, and where Gibson was allowed to paint a speculative picture of what a world interconnected by technology might look like. This book is rich in its interpretation of how internet culture would develop, and I found it to be oddly accurate in some regards.Neuromanceris the type of book I would have loved to have read when I was in high school, and can imagine animated discussions about it in today's classrooms.2. The Hipster/Punk/Skater/Mom/Dad Looking for Some Cool CredThough there is a lot to be said about the literary and speculative merits ofNeuromancer, it is also undeniably cool. Molly, a street ninja with mirror-eyes and blades under her nails, seems to be an almost archetypal badass. How about the visit to the orbital space station run by Rastafarians, constantly cloaked in ganja smoke? So much of this book reads as instantly iconic, and it is no wonder that it was the first winner of the "sci-fi triple crown" (Winner of the Nebula, Hugo, and Phillip K. Dick Awards).Neuromanceris a world that is grimy around the edges, and is all the richer for it. This isn't a shiny-white future that looks like an Apple store, more likeStar Warsin that it is science fiction without all the gloss.3. The Reader Looking For Something A Little DifferentYou'll feel no shame in having readNeuromancer. You might not like the book, but its craft is undeniable. Gibson shaped a world and cast of characters that could have easily filled a 600-page epic, but Gibson instead chose a restrained, tight, slightly confusing, 271-page romp. I was able to appreciate the book for its literary aspirations, the curiosity of an imagined internet-age, but also to sit back and enjoy some foreign imagery and high-stakes action. There are obvious flaws to the novel: it isn't easily understandable, and the prose can seem a bit tedious on occasion. So, it isn't as if I loved this one the whole way through. However, when taken as a whole,Neuromancerprovided an interesting, complicated, and challenging read that I won't soon forget.