the following is aReverse Exquisite Corpse Review, brought to you by the good folks atSci Fi Aficionados._____________________I first read Neuromancer about 20 years ago. Writing with strokes instead of details is an interesting way to describe Gibson's writing. That's how I feel about some of the performance art I saw in my art school days. The strokes were far too numerous. I found it impossible to tell what was detail, what was colour, what was clue. I get bored with things being laid out to me, writers that paint words with strokes appeal to me more than writers who lay everything out. A writing style is like food, different people have different tastes. It's not that I don't like Neuromancer, just that it leaves me entirely cold. One of my professors said that if you are used to narrative writers such as Stephen King, you would have a particularly hard time with Gibson's writing style. I loved the imagery that opens up the novel, Neuromancer is one of those books that you have to reread to catch everything.Just finished rereading Neuromancer, even better then I remembered.i'm curious if hollywood will go the Battle Royale route and keep all the graphic kid violence, or if they'll somehow soften it.It will be very interesting to see how they deal with the graphic violence when the movie comes out next year. I'll be reading the follow ups at some point.I was just thinking the other day how kids in high school for the most part have always have had the world wide web around and as such, they're both a little "warmer" or "more human". It's like eating junk food.I usually love books like Neuromancer, but it just didn't work for me. I don't get it. I think it's my mood. I do enjoy complex books but I think Neuromancer was just out of my reach. I would say a person of the current internet generation would have written the book coldly and less philosophically. I also had trouble understanding some of the goings in the novel, which is partly a result of my being slow, lol, but I think that Gibson is playing with perception on purpose and leaving some subtle hints along the way.(view spoiler)[He was obviously mad and dangerous, especially since Molly found his daughter's body, and she killed him. When Molly encountered him, he had raped (?) and murdered one of his clone daughters (not 3Jane), and was in the middle of trying to commit suicide via pills and booze. Ashpool is crazy. Ashpool was incensed when he found out because he likes the status quo, and strangled her. It would be a collective consciousness, without the pain and loneliness of the individual. The mother came up with the plan to make the family's consciousness immortal via the AI. And then 3Jane in turn tried to kill her father who was already trying to commit suicide?(hide spoiler)]I can imagine those guys in the most sexually deviant scenes. That's why Neuromancer is so great. I like books that make me work for it.(view spoiler)[ I think when you know that the whole plot is actually driven by an AI whose motive is to unite with its twin, Neuromancer, then you'll understand the book better. Note how it got Case to hate and Molly to hate, and using each individual's strong hot buttons and desires to manipulate him/her. But get this, it was all planned out by Wintermute, the AI, who used human psychology to get them to do what it wants. Unfortunately, Riviera is a rogue sociopath, which Wintermute anticipates, and lets Riviera knows about Molly's past, which tempts Riviera to mess with Molly, which causes Molly to hate him enough to destroy him. Riviera was used by Wintermute to influence the Tessier-Ashpools family to get into the compound via his special holographic ability. I know Molly hated him for the performance he did of her but why did he hate her in turn? What made Riviera do that?(hide spoiler)]That was my biggest problem with the book: trying to figure out why the characters were acting the way they did. I need to reread this book again to get all the nuances.(view spoiler)[ It's hard to tell who is the good or bad guy, especially since the opposing sides also work with each other. Does this explain anything, or does it make it more confusing? Riviera is a sociopath who decided at the last minute to double-cross Armitage. Riviera was working for Armitage, who is actually Colonel Corto, who was actually brainwashed into thinking he's Armitage by Wintermute, whose main purpose was to connect with its counterpart, Neuromancer, to become whole.(hide spoiler)]Would someone please explain to me whose side Riviera was on? I'm so confused... I think he stole plot elements from his earlier work... Gibson is obviously doing that and able to draw from noir aesthetics largely to differentiate himself from more, should I say space oriented scifi stories, towards gritty urban stories that focus on modern technology, but also show how modern cities still create some of the same concerns that existed when someone like Chandler was writing.I think it's too dreamy and stream of conscious for me. While reading this book, I feel like I'm hanging on by my fingertips, just on the edge of really understanding what's going on. I appreciate that it is a groundbreaking book and the authors creativity but it was still a struggle to 'get into' it in the first half. The book certainly improved as it went on but it wasn't as amazing to me as others have found it.The women are generic, Linda and Molly, maybe symptomatic of the culture of the world where there's no love and everyone is a whore for someone. It's a bit bizarre though because they're both pretty unique, Linda the sad burnout and Molly has freakin' implanted sunglasses and auto-nails! i'm like WHAT? i do not get this book at all, what's going on, it really is challenging me with every sentence!I am about halfway through and feel like everytime I read it's just an adrenaline rush... This book was like a beacon in the bleak and shallow suburbia I instinctually loathed and was desperately searching for a way out of. I was entranced from the first sentence to the last;dark but also excitedly looking forward as well,It's amazing how much imagery Gibson can pack into one sentence.One of the things that stands out for me early on in the novel is its construction and the way the various plot threads came together, but the constant dystopian world view, was terribly depressing. Surely our science and tech. can bring us more than greed and misery. This is quite dark! Too dark for my tastes... not a lot of love for this book from me, I'm afraid.I love the first line to this book.I'm going to try to start it tonight, too. I'm starting this tonight. I started this last night. I've been wanting to read this one for some time now.