NO SPOILERSThis is one of the most beautifully written books I have ever had the pleasure of reading. Gibson has a real gift.Think of Blade Runner - the movie with Harrison Ford. This book has the same kind of slick, urban, grimy, futuristic feel to it. It has aged wonderfully. Written in 1983, it has done nothing to date itself and still feels fresh and new and possible, even now....Case is a hacker, it's what he lives for - being jacked in and connected to the matrix. But he loses that ability when he tries to cheat his employers and as a punishment they poison him so that he's unable to hook into the mainframe - to him this is worse than death. So he's been eking out a living - if you could call it living - in filthy Chiba, Japan, a wretched hive of scum and villainy. He's killed three people, two men and a woman, and his life is a drugged haze of barely disguised suicidal tendencies. He's 24 and he's an old man - his life is basically over.Then some strange ex-military man shows up and tells Case he can repair him - for a price. Even though he knows it's dangerous and he knows the man will probably backstab him, blackmail him, and use him ruthlessly - Case can't resist the chance to be connected to the Net again. It's the only thing that makes him feel alive and powerful. Besides, there's this woman.......I went into this novel completely blind and very unsure about how I would like it. I don't really think of myself as a hard science-fiction kind of person. Actually, I don't think of myself as a science fiction fan at all - which is complete bullcrap, I totally am, and I should seek more of it out, because apparently I love the stuff - as my reviews will testify to. o.O Strange and exciting to find out new things about yourself...I digress. Anyway, the novel was wonderful. Case is EXACTLY the kind of guy I adore. Chill, calm, observant, smart, takes-life-as-it-comes, type-b personality type of man that makes me very excited. :) This isn't to say he's passive or weak - far from it - but a kind of roll-with-the-punches, shit-happens, wait-and-see, patient, no-temper, kind of guy.If it wasn't for his serious drug addiction, I would be ga-ga over this man.I love how he treats women and I love how he reacts to life and the problems that come his way. I really enjoyed being in his head and reading his story and seeing what happened to him....I also really appreciate Gibson not trying to write from a female perspective ever in this book. I personally think it would have been a disaster and sometimes I really am grateful when a male author decides to stick with what he knows. Not to say a man can't write a woman well - but I really wanted to enjoy every minute of this book and I didn't want to see Gibson screw it up. So.What else?...Oh, yes, Case's love interest - Molly. I really liked her. She's an ex-prostitute, and ex-prostitutes and prostitutes in general (while very popular characters in fiction) are really difficult to write - but I thought Gibson did a stellar job here. Her difficult, painful past is not dwelled on, but it is mentioned and treated respectfully. They didn't make too big a deal out of her past, and I liked that. Also, she turns her money from tricking into becoming a badass lethal assassin and I really liked that. She was very strong, confident, self-assured, and bold - but in no way crass or easy or cheap or dirty. She's also not a caricature of a 'kickass babe.' Gibson did a great job of making her a real person with real feelings and he also made her a strong character - mentally and physically. I enjoyed it immensely. :)Molly makes her attraction to Case obvious and she chooses to have sex with him at the earliest opportunity. I was nervous about that, and worried about Case. After all, Molly is working for the man who is helping/blackmailing Case and I was unsure about her motives for sleeping with him. Not because I think the blackmailer is ordering/asking Molly to have sex with Case - those days are long over for her and she's never going back - but because often times a woman who is in the Life or used to be in the Life has sex with a man as a kind of power-thing. If she can get the man to have sex with her, she's already won. Having carnal knowledge of the him makes him 'not a person, but just a man' in her eyes. Now that she's seen him at his most vulnerable and also knows that she makes his cock twitch - she can dismiss him as a person and also lose any fear she has of him, because he's already in a way submitted to her (by submitted, I don't mean 'submissive,' he could be a woman-beating rapist asshole but still the sex gives her a tool to use, see?). Do you understand? It's a common tactic that women who have lived very difficult lives and seen terrible things and are ancient in spirit if not in body use to make themselves a little more sure, a little less afraid, and gives them a little more control over a situation they may be unsure about.So, I was afraid that THIS was why Molly was having sex with Case right away, in order to get a read on him and get a hold on him. But it wasn't - she was really interested in him as a person and she made an excellent choice in a partner, in my opinion.That leads me to the fact that Case makes...not exactly bad...but 'iffy' sexual decisions throughout this book. It's as if, when presented by any reasonably attractive female who is offering to fuck him, he is quite unable to say 'no.' I really, really hope this is not an accurate portrayal of SINGLE (not married/partnered) men - feel free to chime in, guys - because I've seen it in about a billion books that are written by MEN. I've talked with this to some of my male friends, and have gotten no clear answer. Even when the main character of these books is being offered sex from a female who might have a desire to kill them/hurt them/blackmail them/steal from them/spy on them, etc. etc. in other words, IT MIGHT NOT BE THE BEST IDEA TO GO TO BED WITH HER, the men always, always, and without fail - choose sex. o.O This is baffling to me on so many levels. Are guys really this much of a slave to their own dicks? I genuinely want to know. Because their stupidity and blatant willingness to disregard any negative consequences makes me fret and scold and worry. I'm yelling at the book, "Don't sleep with her, you moron!!!" But of course, the man never listens to me.ANYWAY. Sleeping with Case was a super-good idea on Molly's part - no stupidity there - there's absolutely no scenario in which having sex with him would not give her some sort of benefits or advantages. And I (and Molly) was really grateful that they were sexually and ...kind of romantically... involved when Case got his powers to "jack in" again. Because they set her up with a port that allows him to see through her eyes and feel what she feels (he can't talk to her or control her, just observe and feel and hear) and the fact that she's in his bed regularly gives them a bit more of an equal footing. And it means someone she trusts and likes is in her head - not some stranger or a sicko. I usually hate mind-invasion scenarios with a passion (paranormal romance authors, I'm looking at YOU) but here it not only works but doesn't leave me feeling the least bit slimy or unsure. Like I said before, Case is exactly the kind of man I trust and end up falling in love with - I was NEVER worried he'd hurt Molly in any way or take advantage of her.I love the way he treats Molly, he's there for her and he doesn't expect or demand anything from her, and he takes her as she is, and he takes whatever she's willing to give him but he doesn't push, and he doesn't try to own her or possess her or control her in any way. He's just an amazing guy and my heart was melting all over the place. :)...I also liked how he was living this numb, zombie-like, drug-fueled life until this man came and gave his life a purpose again. Case is FEELING again, for the first time in about two years, and it's fun to see him work it out in his mind and experience emotions again. Molly is good for him, the adventure is good for him, getting hooked into the mainframe again is good for him, and even the anger and rage he feels towards certain 'bad guys' in the book is good for him. It's like seeing him wake up or come alive and it's good reading.....I liked the Jamaican character, Maelcum, and his slang and attitude throughout the book....After reading a slew of reviews on GR, I have to say that yes, sometimes his writing is a little challenging or hard to follow. But I just relaxed and went with the flow and it all worked out. I find that trusting the author and letting go a bit really helps especially with the harder science-fiction. I was completely satisfied with this book - not frustrated or lost. But then again, I didn't try to fight it....Another thing that I think is funny after reading all these GR reviews is that I completely focused on the human relationships in this book and focused very little on the technology and cyber-talk. :) Those are my priorities in a book though - how are people loving, hating, interacting, and what are they feeling? So that's what my reviews always end up centering on. I could care less about technology or the future or Cyberdyne Systems or whatever - give me the human element and I'm happy....Tl;dr - A surprisingly human, enchanting novel with gorgeous writing dripping from every page. I'd recommend it. :)