William Gibson's Neuromancer is considered a classic in the cyberpunk genre and, indeed, as I read it, I could definitely feel the influence it had other iconic cultural landmarks such as the film The Matrix. The book itself is confusing to say the least: all the characters are jacked up on drugs most of the time and the language becomes confusing as a result. The descriptions of cyberspace are also complex and, of course, visionary - how Gibson could have foreseen some of the insidious ways that technology would ineluctably enmesh itself with our 21st century lives is truly amazing. The dystopian future that is described - a powerful, mob-ruled Japan, an ambiguous USA referred to as simply the Sprawl, decrepit Istanbul, and the Freeside space station (along with the entertaining rasta guys) - is one in which central power seems to have been passed to organized crime and a sort of cyber-anarchy reins. There do not seem to be any normal (un-modified, undrugged) people - at least none in the story. As for the plot, we follow Case through his Neo-like experiences surfing cyberspace and hacking alongside Flatline - a dead conscience with a redneck accent who lives in a circuit board - as he proceeds on a mission against the powerful (and perverse) Tellier-Ashpool family. He is also able to channel the feelings and experiences of his lover and ersatz altergo Molly while plugged into cyberspace. Overall, the book is mind-blowing in terms of the flipping between difference levels of cyber-reality as Case continues his fight. I have to say that I did not feel much affinity to Case - he is less charismatic than, say, Neo, but Molly was nearly as interesting and attractive as Trinity (although - spoiler alert - things between Case and Molly do not end as they did for Neo and Trinity.) Despite the confusing descriptions and the somewhat flatness of the protagonist, this is still a well-written and fascinating sci-fi book which was immensely influential. I just hope the world we are creating does not end up resembling the anarchic, criminally led world of Case and Molly.