**********SOME SPOILERS**********Here is another book I wasn't sure I would like as I don't care for time travel books. BUT.. once again I was wrong and this time travel book wasAWESOME!Jake Epping is having a normal day when his friend Al, who owns a diner, lets him in on a big secret.Al's little diner has a portal that leads back to the 1950's - 60's! And Al wants Jake to go back and try to save Kennedy to see if the world would be a better place. Al has been trying for awhile but now he's going to die of cancer and he can't do it any more. But if Jake goes into that time and comes back to 2011 and has to go back then it resets.More slowly than ever, I said: "Every . . . time . . . is . . . the . . . first time."Al has this whole thing set up with money from that time, instructions on Oswald's movements, what to buy, what to do.. it's been a long time in the making for Al so he's prepared and gets Jake ready as much as he can for the journey.Jake heads over a few times in the book just to get the feel of what he's trying to do. He wants to help save a persons family that he knows from this time. Anyhoo, while he's over there he gets himself a 1954 Ford Ragtop Sunliner to cruise around in and it's cherry red. Oh and cheap, back in the day and all!At one point poor ole Jake thinks he's done cracked his nut, and who wouldn't?I'm crazy, I thought. Crazy and having a terribly involved hallucination in a mental hospital somewhere. Perhaps some doctor will write me up for a psychiatric journal. Instead of The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat, I'll be The Man Who Thought He Was in 1958When Jake goes to help his friend Henry's family, he has to go to Derry, Maine and spend some time there. He feels like the place is not right.... well, all Stephen King fans know who or what is in Derry :-)This is actually one of my favorite, if not favorite parts of the book because not only does he go through some crazy stuff to help his friend... he talks to some of the kids from the book "IT" !!!! I was so crazy reading this part. Some of the towns people also talk about some of the stuff that happened when you know who was around. And don't mentionclownsin the town! It was just bittersweet to me because I could picture some of the things from the other book with the descriptions in this book.So Jake gets what he wants done in Derry after two attempts of resetting and then he's off to do the main deed. But, first he gets some jobs as a substitute teacher etc. (He's a teacher in 2011) And he falls in love. Yep, can't do nothing without falling in love!And the lovely lady would be Sadie Dunhill. At first I was a little irritated that we had to go off track and fall in love. I wanted to continue on and not get into the drama that came with Sadie but it all worked out in the end. Sadie was a sweet person and I can't really say anything else without major spoilers.Either way, I loved the stories and I loved the characters! If you haven't looked at the end of the book there are some lovely things added. Obviously you have the Afterword, You have questions for discussion for your book group, A conversation with Stephen King, Playlist from the book, Menu from the book which I am excited over as I'm going to make some of the food :-)Another winner in my book, Mr. King! Pun intended!I have yet to see the mini series but it comes out on blu-ray in August so I'm hoping I can get it and see if it's good too!MY BLOG:Melissa Martin's Reading List