I think we have all had that experience of feeling entirely and utterly alone in life, where our friends have turned against us because something has happened or we forgot to mention sometime to them. Its a horrid place to be in and its therefore a place that we can sympathize with. Zoey has a whole lot more things to go through with regards to this book, there are things happening that none of us would ever want to go through, and would never want to understand the feeling of needing to go through. In this novel though we get to see the very thing that Nyx was saying within the first novel, that not everything light is good and not everything dark is bad. Neferet we already knew was a bit insane and that she was not actually the kind and considerate person that we thought she was back in book one. She is clearly up to a whole lot more than she can handle though and as a result its all starting to backfire on her because her little secrets are starting to slip out to a point where everyone is able to notice that something just isn't right about her.I think that in conjunction with the last book before this one, we can see that the drama is really about to flood out, but surprise surprise there could be no drama without a good looking guy trying to win over Zoey's heart, then again, it couldn't just be one good looking guy because suddenly we are back to three guys. Yes its getting a little cliche and sickening for the series because you kind of want the story to happen without the whole love fess mess that she seems to always go through. I know that they want to add a teenager reality to the novel so that we can all connect, and yes I am aware that these books are probably not aimed at people of my age. But even as a teenager I was not constantly in love with one boy after another, and I was certainly never THAT confused about what boy I wanted to be with. So yes that bit is highly annoying because you kind of know that in reality that would never be the case. Between two boys maybe, but three, Nah. thats just plain greedy, and yes, slutty.Aphrodite is certainly becoming a huge highlight of the novel because I think she represents the kind of personality that a lot of us have, where we want to be one person but instead we cover up by being something else altogether. However you can see that she really wants to help in this novel, because she doesnt want Zoey to be alone when she knows that her life is in danger, and she stands by her side in helping her with everything that is going on. the authors really allow you to see the real side to Aphrodite here in the novel and that is something that I appreciate and enjoy, because it means that you really get a greater understanding of her and you can actually identify and connect with character.The drama, although it can be overdone in a lot of books was actually represented well within this one and unlike the other novel it actually seemed more laid out and not rushed at all. It seemed to flow with this better consistency that meant you knew what was happening all the time, and that you could understand it. Of course having read up to book nine it is hard to not already know what is going to happen because you are kind of familiar, especially when old characters start to show up in the novel and you know what it is that they are going to do and who they are connect to. I do feel though that this book was particuarly well written and perhaps it was the first book within the series that really striked the match of a storyline and plot. It seemed to identify that trouble was ahead and who the trouble was linked with. Its a thought provoking sort of book but enjoyable and well deserving of five stars. Although the fact that I love the series could mean its a biased rating ;)