'Nala hissed long and menacingly, staring back over my shoulder at the darkness surrounding the huge old oaks that were usually so familiar and welcoming. Not tonight. Tonight they housed monsters.'(view spoiler)[PlotJust one week ago, Zoey Redbird had three boyfriends and a close group of friends. Now she has no boyfriend, and has become an outcast from her circle of friends. In fact, the only friends she has left are Stevie Rae, her undead best friend, and strangely, Aphrodite.As frightening events begin to take place at The House of Night, Zoey will need all the friends she can get. But will her friends listen to her, and will they forgive her before it's too late?(hide spoiler)]My thoughtsThis is the fourth book in The House of Night series, and one of the best so far for me. In this book, an outside threat directly impacts on The House of Night and really spices up the plot. I've enjoyed the previous books in this series, but for me this one was the most exciting so far.Seeing the plot unfold was really interesting. It's obvious from the start that some of the problems are caused by Neferet, as it's been clear in the last few books that she's not the person we originally thought she was. First impressions of Neferet are that she's kind and caring and acting as a mother figure towards Zoey, but it soon becomes clear that Neferet definitely doesn't care for Zoey. But I was unprepared for the enormity of what Neferet had planned, and as it started to unfold it was definitely a shock.At the end of the last book, Zoey made some bad decisions that affected her relationships with her boyfriend(s) and her friends. After being seduced by Loren Blake, a professor at the school, she lost her imprint with her human boyfriend Heath, and was caught in the act by her Vampyre boyfriend Erik. Of course, this lead to her losing all of her boyfriends, as well as her friends, when they found out she was keeping secrets from them. This is very difficult for Zoey at the start of this book, as she feels completely alone and has nobody to talk to about her terrifying experiences in the school grounds. Once again with these books, I end up feeling sorry for Zoey, as we all know what it's like to make a mistake and lose a friend.Overall, this book was the best in the series so far,for me. The introduction of an outside threat to the school made things more interesting and brought some new dangers to Zoey and her friends. Now they must team up with some unlikely allies if they want to survive.