I don't really know what happened to the authors between the last book and this one, but whatever it was, I'm thankful for it. This book was the best one yet. I'll keep this short.What Iliked:-Aphrodite and Darius-Aphrodite and her new cat, Maleficent"I slid into the backseat and after strapping on my seat belt looked up into the glaring eyes of Maleficent, who was stretched out across Aphrodite's chest and over her shoulder so that she could hang halfway over the seat and stare at me. "Uh, Aphrodite, shouldn't you put her in a cat carrier or something?""Oh my god! Are you mean and hateful or what? Of course she doesn't ride in a cat carrier." ..."Jeesh, never mind. I was just thinking of the cat's safety," I lied. Actually, I was thinking of my safety. Maleficent looked like she'd love to have a big bite of Zoey for dinner."Me and Maleficent have that in common.-Heath putting his foot down (sortof)-Cherokee lore and charms (not sure how factual any of this was but I don't feel like doing FBI research just to prove the book wrong, so since I don't know it I'm going to leave it alone)What Idisliked:-More weird/awkward comments on homosexuality"So, what's up?" I directed the question at Damien, knowing that my gay friend was naturally the weakest link in the don't-talk-to-Zoey chain. Sadly, it was the Twins who answered me and not gay, and therefore more sensitive and polite, Damien.Umm have you never met a sassy gay man before? ... andJack and Damien are together. Hello. They're gay. My friends and I, along with anyone who's not narrow-minded and utterly judgmental, are cool with that.I appreciate them trying to defend the LGBT community but by this point we know the characters and I don't think anyone reading this series would have an issue, so it sounds like overcompensation (to me, anyways).-I hate the insta-love between Zoey and Stark. It actually pissed me off badly. I almost deducted a whole star because of it, but I'm choosing to be positive in this review, so I'll overlook it for now.-There was a scene where Zoey referred to Aphrodite as "Aphrodite the Ho" because she was flirting with Darius. I don't even need to point out Zoey's track record to say she's a hypocrite because we all know it.Well the poopie (as Zoey would say) has officially hit the fan so I'm excited to see what happens next!