"Waiting for Godot" is a play that merits being read about once every decade of your life. My reasoning behind this is very simple: the play deals with the ideas of God, faith, daily living, death, our interactions with those we care about (and those we don't) and about the perceived hopelessness of hope. In short, things that we deal with on a daily basis. These fundamental aspects of life are also things that we change our views on as we age and get different life experiences under our belt.I will not attempt to analyze or define this play in this space. I think the myriads of interpretations this text offers are almost numberless. And, I am sure that if I look at this review a few years hence I will have changed many things that I thought about this play. Such is the nature of the masterpiece that Samuel Beckett has created. The two main characters, Vladimir and Estragon, are two friends who alternate between loathing and desperately loving and needing the other. Their interactions are the crux of the play, and on this reading I was very moved by the simplicity and honesty of the relationship that they share. There are also two secondary roles that pop up once in each act, Pozzo and Lucky, and their part in the play serves as one of the more tantalizing mysteries of interpretation. I am still not sure what Beckett is doing with them, and I have read the play twice now, and saw it performed once.The English translation of the play was done by the author himself, and having the original author make the translation is one of the many reasons why I think this text has staying power. Beckett was able to convey his original ideas, in the manner he chose, and thus the English version really is the same play.I don't know if "Waiting for Godot" is about our relationship with a God that is silent in modern times, an existential treatise on faith, or is it simply commentary on humanity. Actually I can say confidently that the play touches on all three and much much more. If you have some smart friends read and discuss this work with them. It will make for an interesting evening.