ESTRAGON: I tell you I wasn't doing anything.VLADIMIR: Perhaps you weren't. But it's the way of doing it that counts, the way of doing it, if you want to go on living.I've no idea how I'd have reviewed this had the Charleston church shooting not occurred. For those not in the US-centric know, a white man drove for two hours to reach one of the oldest black churches in the country, attended the prayer amidst the crowd for a while, and then opened fire on the congregation, killing nine people. One five-year-old girl survived by playing dead, the white man was taken into custody without being killed on sight, and what news outlets aren't ignoring the story are calling it a hate crime. One spot of irony is, what was the point of inventing the word "terrorism" if popularly proclaimed common sense cherry picks the usage. Another is the fact that I'm even trying to pick apart the usual inconsistencies that let the world pillow their sleep on suffering. The things the powerful do. I am angry because I've not been forced into fear.VLADIMIR: Silence!All listen, bent double.ESTRAGON: I hear something.POZZO: Where?VLADIMIR: It's the heart.POZZO:(disappointed).Damnation!As an atheist, I'm not going to talk about the deity stuff. I'm more interested in authority, and random violence, and how the average acts in response to horror, both to the surround sound and the intimately related. Here, we have two homeless men regularly threatening to kill themselves, waiting on a higher, watching the antics of a higher (?) with a lower (?), troubled in matters of biology, hazy on the truths of the past, abandoned by the mores of reality. There is talk of exile, punishment for being poor, the filling up of the hanging on the appearance of another, a future that cannot be handled beyond the day by day, etc, etc, etc. There is the red herring of "cripple" via the loss of the senses. There is the threat of succumbing to that age-old accepted cripple, the only of its kind: sadism, realpolitik, finding the value of a human being lacking.VLADIMIR: Let us not waste our time in idle discourse!(Pause. Vehemently.)Let us do something, while we have the chance! It is not every day that we are needed. Not indeed that we personally are needed. Others would meet the case equally well, if not better. To all mankind they were addressed, those cries for help still ringing in our ears! But at this place, in this moment of time, all mankind is us, whether we like it or not. Let us make the most of it, before it is too late! Let us represent worthily for once the foul brood to which a cruel fate consigned us! What do you say?The times have changed. Lines of power proclaimed by history are sunkenly set through the erasure of history, the bartering of homicide, and the liminal spaces of hired hand and mental illness. The poor, the enslaved, the abused. For the post WWII, I have to wonder how many put in the Vichy Government, the concentration camps, the refusal of refugees the world over. Or we could strip it and speak of authority, random violence, gaslighting, the impulse to hurt, the impulse to reach out, the impulse to risk punishment for the sake of movement and forgo movement for the sake of punishment.VLADIMIR: Was I sleeping, while the others suffered? Am I sleeping now? To-morrow, when I wake, or think I do, what shall I say of to-day?There's humor in this. That's the hard part. The worst part is, at the heart of it, this is power. How often do Vladimir and Estragon walk hand in hand in the face of it? How often do we?