What can one say about The Waste Land that hasn't already been said? It's disjointed, difficult, long, and brilliant. Parts of it are confusing and grotesque (I'm looking at you, carbuncular young man) while other parts are strikingly painfully beautiful. It is laden with symbolism and references to everything under the sun. The only interpretation people can agree on is that something is terribly broken, though no-one can seem to agree on exactly what that thing is. If you like poetry, and are up for a challenge, I can definitely recommend The Waste Land. I promise, the only greater satisfaction than being able to brag to other people that you've read The Waste Land is the satisfaction that comes from reading it. It really is quite beautiful and immensely satisfying.If you aren't as lucky as I am, and you don't get to read this in a classroom setting with people to help you sort through all of the rich symbolism and literary references, then I highly suggest you read the Norton Critical Edition or some other similar edition. What I like about this edition is all the extra stuff in the back. It has excerpts from every work that Eliot quotes or refers to, which is very helpful if you're like me and haven't actually read The Inferno or don't know of the top of your head who Philomela is. It even has a copy of the sheet music for the Shakespearean Rag. Now that is just cool. It also contains lots of critical essays written by other people about The Waste Land. Each has a slightly different interpretation, so reading them can really help you see the poem from lots of different angles and decide for yourself what interpretation makes the most sense.I suggest that everyone at least tries to read The Waste Land at least once in their lives, if only so you can say that you have. It's really quite an experience. If you are as scared of this poem as I was and you don't have a class to help with the interpretation, then I suggest getting The Norton Critical Edition, or some similar edition, to help you through it. But no matter what edition you can get your hands on, just read it. Spend some time with it. Don't let the intimidation keep you from enjoying the language. I promise you won't regret it.