John Steinbeck adapted a Mexican folk tale into a novella about fate, evil, the perils of greed, and the plight of oppressed people. The infant son of Juana and Kino, a fisherman and pearl diver, is stung by a scorpion. The doctor refuses to treat the baby because Kino does not have the money to pay him, and because the affluent Spanish colonialists look down at the natives. Kino dives for pearls in the hope that he could afford to pay a doctor, and comes up with a huge, valuable pearl--the "Pearl of the World". He hopes that the pearl will provide necessities and an education for his son someday. But a succession of violent and tragic events occur as people try to rob and swindle Kino.It was interesting how music plays a role in Kino's emotions throughout the book. He hears songs in his head that express a strong feeling--the music of the pearl. When Kino was excited about the material benefits the pearl would bring to his family, "....the music of the pearl rose like a chorus of trumpets to his ears."(24) When people try to swindle him, "....he heard only the dark music of the enemy."(53) When his family treks to another city to sell the pearl, "....the music of the pearl was triumphant in Kino's head, and the quiet melody of the family underlay it, and they wove themselves into the soft padding of sandaled feet in the dust."(67) As circumstances change, Kino hears different types of music of the pearl all the way to the last sentence. Steinbeck wrote a screenplay with Jack Wagner, so the music probably played an even more important role in the filmwhich was released in 1947.I've read other books by Steinbeck, and he is always very sympathetic to poor and oppressed people. This story is told in a very simple manner, like a parable or Mexican folk tale passed down orally. In the epigraph Steinbeck writes, "As with all retold tales that are in people's hearts, there are only good and bad things and black and white things and good and evil things and no in-between anywhere." Although I think real life usually has lots of in-between, or shades of gray, telling this as a parable was very effective for this tale.