I will preface this by saying that I'm a HUGE Steinbeck fan. A friend and I took the time to follow through the route of many of his books in the west just to see where he wrote, the places he wrote about it. It was one of the greatest highlights of my life. With that said, I recognize that this is not his greatest work, but it still is a great work of literature.Steinbeck is very well recognized for his lean writing style. It is what made him so very popular at the time after years of reading the verbose Faulkner who never runs out of adjectives - ever. His style of writing should be something that all Americans are used to simply from having read him in school: grade school - The Red Pony, Middle School - The Pearl, High School - Grapes of Wrath, etc. etc. Apparently not. When adding this book to my "read" list and re-reading today for the umpteenth time, I came across reviews from folks who did not understand the writing style, didn't understand the story - HELLO? It's literally the re-telling of a very well-known, OLD, Mexican parable. I write all of this because in today's society it doesn't matter a wit or whittle if you like this mystery or that thriller, Nobel Prize winning authors are considered Classical writers whose works were chosen because they were great, because they represent a body of work that contributed to society. They deserve more than a cursory 1 star because you didn't "get it." John Steinbeck wrote about the American West and the Southwest poor, native Americans and Mexicans and migrants at a time when no one else was doing so. He wrote in a language that everyone could understand. He wrote simply, to the point and yet in beautiful detail so that you - the reader - could visualize what it must have been like. To say "the pearl was a story about an Indian who finds a pearl so his sick kid could help from a rich doctor, MEH, 10th grade reading" tells me that the reviewer should go back to 10th grade and start over again. Perhaps there is no hope at all for us if we are incapable of reading one of the most simplest yet greatest writers of our time and understand the moral of a simple parable as well as the depth of his writing.This book is less than 100 pages long. I would think any reader from middle school forward could read it in less than a day and should be able to appreciate the beauty of the parable within.