I knew that the new film version of The Voyage of the Dawn Treader was going to be bad. I did not know that it was going to be that retarded that I'd question my faith in my own taste. (Not that I don't like retarded stuff. But boring too? Ouch.) Was the book that bad? I don't remember all of it. It's been years since I've read it. Lauren, you're never picking the movie ever again.A video game version of the movie would be better than the movie. At least it would be more difficult! What the fuck was up with the swords? Was that ALL there was to it? I seem to remember there was more... "Hey, there's the lord's sword. Pick it up." There were all these old lords with ZZ Top beards and no one bust out into "She's got legs"? I guess they forgot how to use them when they were asleep for that long. I seem to remember there was more to the lords than that. I seem to remember that Caspian learned more than a trite "Be your own man" message relating to his hero worship of the dad he didn't know (the movie seems to forget that he didn't know his dad). There was more than gripping the flaccid swords of old men and daddy never touched me as a child. Wasn't there?The looks thing? What the? Lucy didn't perform a spell to look "beautiful" like Susan (I'm enough of a girl that I thought "Well, she's not THAT pretty..."). She used it to eavesdrop. She found out that her friend said something she didn't mean about her behind her back. Because she did that, they would never be friends the same way again. What Lucy really learned was that people are pissy bitches and one bad mood isn't them all the time. Girls can insult your ugly sweater and still really (sometimes secretly) admire you.I know that Eustace becoming a dragon and the process of becoming "himself" again was more. I loved that in the book it wasn't some pansy "Be nice" message. Eustace was a jerk because he was afraid of everything, afraid to think for himself. In the movie he learns to be what the "cool kids" want instead of just not being afraid to change. What the? Boo! The "be yourself" message about Lucy and Caspian did not mesh with the "be like everybody else" message they inflicted on the audience about poor Eustace. (The kid who played Eustace was the only good actor in the film. Lucy is an embarrassment. Also inappropriate! She did that wide-eyed wonder grin when her cousin was stuck as a dragon! What idiots let that one go by? They made their heroine look like a bitch.)Okay, they made a lot of mistakes in the pretty bad Prince Caspian film. He shouldn't have been old. It was nothing to meet him again later on in his life if he's still a young man. The stupid Susan romance? Who cares when he meats (Freudian slip) the star chick if they are pissed he forgets about Susan? I hated that movie. It was pre-school LOTR films battle scenes. They got all wrong what were the good parts of the book.I know that Edmund admits to being a shit for his first Narnia visit. This is not mentioned in the film. I liked that about Edmund in the book.Nothing new here: I always loathed Reepicheep. He's the little thing that runs his big mouth so no one will underestimate him. If he was really that good he wouldn't have to run his mouth. He's also the biggest mouth peice for Aslan-mania.The "Bad stuff happens have faith anyway" stuff. I remember that The Last Battle is the most overtly religious book in the series and I managed to ignore the rest in the other books. They upped the ante? Am I a harder sell?I don't like this. I feel more or less the same person as before. I'll still read the kids and ya books that recognize the parts of you that you can carry on with you. Not the bad taste for silly melodrama parts but the "That happened and I can't pretend it didn't" experiences. Narnia was such a good part of my life. The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe was the first book I really remember reading. I don't want it to be the bad part that I only pretended was good to get by.P.s. I don't wanna be all Comic Book Guy, but it annoyed the effing hell out of me that Eustace's mom announces in the end that "Jill Pole is here to see you!" Jill wasn't his friend before! Eustace didn't have friends. So annoying.Oh yeah! I forgot to say what I thought about writing here while watching that dumb ass movie. They really wasted a golden chance. C.S. Lewis made digs about the loss of freedoms for kids, school systems that babied kids and at the same time allowed fucked up shit to go on so they wouldn't "Stifle" anybody. Kids today have no freedom. Parents will call the cops on each other if they run around outside and play. Yet here was Edmund and Lucy having to be shut-in after they had lived it up as free-thinking adults in Narnia. Instead? They waste it all by bamming audiences on the head about doing what Aslan wants. That doesn't mesh with the good parts of the Narnia series that I remembered it to have.EDIT- Lauren will be pissed at me for not mentioning the glow in the dark "eevel" green mist. What the hell was that? I don't remember that. They should just let me write these things. The BBC tv movies back in the day combined Voyage and Prince. Probably because the actual plots were so thin. That's why they should let me do it. I'd have made the whole thing a dragon eating its own skin off movie. Prince Caspian would have been a refugee movie.Lauren really hated the actor who played the magician. You know they are a nobody if they weren't in Harry Potter (some exceptions allowed for LOTR actors).