From the age of 18 to approximately 22, I went through my blue period. This era was marked by dateless Friday nights, dateless Saturday nights,Soprano-less Sunday nights (The Sopranosnot having gone on air yet), and a long flirtation with hipsterism. During this time, I watched relationships end with such arbitrariness that I was left to conclude the Universe had conspired against me.Maybe you've gone through a period like this. It's called youth. And if you have, you know there's a certain pleasure to be taken from the pain. Sure, part of me was preparing for my eventual transformation into the male version of a cat lady (a priest, I guess). But another part of me enjoyed dwelling in a half-depression. I listened to sad songs, I pretended to read poetry, I rewatched Richard Linklater'sBefore Sunrise2,000 times, and I drank countless Moscow Mules at various hipster bars.It was during this time I read David Guterson'sSnow Falling on Cedars. Despite its pretentious title, it is an accessible, mixed-genre book: a police procedural, courtroom drama, and story of star-crossed love, all rolled into one. (Of course, the movie version starred Ethan Hawke, the patron saint of morose twenty-somethings). The uniqueness of the book comes from its setting in Puget Sound in 1954. It is a place of snow and fog and a dark legacy with regards to its Japanese-American population, who were shipped off to internment camps during World War II.Snow Falling on Cedarsunabashedly harkens toMoby Dick. It's main character is named Ishmael, and he, like Ahab, is a cripple, who lost a hand during World War II. He is obsessed with Hatsue, a Japanese girl whom he loved as a child. Love and obsession, two sides of the same coin.The main storyline concerns Hatsue's husband, Kabuoe, a fisherman who is charged with killing Carl Heine. By way of motive, Kabuoe believes that Carl's family reneged on a contract to sell Kabuoe a strawberry field.Ishamel, the crippled former lover of Kabuoe's wife, is a writer for the local paper. He covers the story while moping through life like the protagonist in a thousand emo songs. While the trial is taking place, there are flashbacks to Ishmael and Hatsue's relationship; the internment of Hatsue's family; and Ishmael's service in the war. Guterson is quite successful in evoking the everything-in-life-hinges-on-this feel of young love:Inside their cedar tree, for nearly four years, he and Hatsue had held one another with the dreamy contentedness of young lovers. With their coats spread against a cushion of moss they'd stayed as long as they could after dusk and on Saturday and Sunday afternoons. The tree produced a cedar perfume that permeated their skin and clothes. They would enter, breath deeply, then lie down and touch each other - the heat of it and the cedar smell, the privacy and the rain outside, the slippery softness of their lips and tongues inspired in them the temporary illusion that the rest of the world had disappeared...Ah, young love. And no, I am not and have never been a 12 year-old girl.Way back when I first read this book, a great measure of my enjoyment came from wallowing in Ishmael's misery. However, there are other pleasures to be had, for readers who have learned that the sun and moon do not rise and set with every relationship.There is a wide cast of characters possessed of the rural quirkiness well-mined by the likes of the Cohen brothers. Aside from Ishmael, Hatsue, and Kabuoe, you meet sheriff Art Moran, the prosecutor Alvin Hooks, the Gerry Spence-like defense attorney, Nels Gudmundsson, and Ole, the elderly strawberry farmer.More than the characters there is a sense of place. This is a lush, tactile novel, and you get enveloped in the weather and atmosphere:Center Valley's strawberry fields lay under nine inches of powder and were as fuzzy through the snowfall as a landscape in a dream, with no discernible hard edges. On Scatter Springs Drive the trees had closed the road in so that the sky was little more than an indistinct, drab ribbon overhead, but down here the dramatic expanse of it was visible, chaotic and fierce. Looking out past the windshield wipers Ishmael saw billions of snowflakes falling in long tangents, driven southward, the sky shrouded and furious.Part of the problem with life is we grow old too soon and forget too fast. When I think back to all the time I spent listening to Belle &amp; Sebastian and pondering the monastery, I want to build a time machine just to go back in time and punch myself in the face.A book likeSnow Falling on Cedarshelps me remember what it meant to be young, and in love, and certain that all happiness hinged on these very things.