This book is many things: historical fiction, police procedural, courtroom drama, and love story. It is a densely-written, character-driven novel set on the isolated island of San Piedro in Puget Sound, where the hatreds, bitterness, and wounds of WWII have not completely healed almost ten years after the war's end.The story opens in December, 1954, as Kabuo Miyamoto, a Japanese-American fisherman, is on trial for the premeditated murder of Carl Heine, a fellow island fisherman. The motive appears to be seven acres of land that Kabuo believes the Heines stole from his family while they were interned during the war. Kabuo gazes out the courtroom window and sees snow falling; he has not seen the light of day since his arrest in September, seventy-seven days ago, and realizes he has completely missed autumn.Also in the courtroom is the reporter Ishmael, who was the childhood lover of Kabuo's wife, Hatsue, and still suffers in his soul from unrequited love. As he also watches the snow fall, he thinks about the contested land: "The world was one world, and the notion that a man might kill another over some small patch of it did not make sense--though Ishmael knew that such things happened. He had been to the war, after all." The rugged island setting is very important to the story--the isolatedness of life for its five-thousand residents, who are at the mercy of the changeable weather and the sea.As the trial unfolds and witnesses come forward to testify, flashbacks reveal what has led to the current situation--what has shaped each life and caused them to have the feelings and make the choices and judgments they have made: events such as Pearl Harbor and its aftermath, the internment of Japanese-Americans in camps, horrifying WWII fighting experiences, cultural forces and bigotry that thwart love's fulfillment.The mystery comes to a satisfying conclusion which I thought was well done. I thoroughly enjoyed the richness of these peoples' stories and believe they will stay with me for a long time, which is why I gave the book my top rating. It has been a long time since I've read a novel this well-done and I highly recommend it.I found these last thoughts from Ishmael most poignant: "The heart of ANY other, because it had a will, would remain forever mysterious. (H)e understood this, too: that accident ruled every corner of the universe except the chambers of the human heart."