I've been so busy I took a long time with this book, however, it is no reflection on how much I like this book, respect the necessity of this book and completely comprehend it's position as a classic book. I now understand why this book is an award winner and found on many syllabus as required reading.I wasn't really sure what to expect upon beginning this book. I just knew I was looking for something good and worth reading. From the very first page the author's skill made it self known. I could tell that this was not going to be a let down and it wasn't in any way. From the writing style, to the content of the story, to the delivery and emotion in the detail.. there was nothing that I was not satisfied with in this read.This is a book about a trial within small town of a Japanese American man in the years following WWII but it's so much more than that. The author delves back in to glimpse the history of the town and it's inhabitants before the war, at the onset of the war and the internment camps, during the war the transformation and after. It is also the story of several characters love, forbidden love, choices, friendship, loyalty, patriotism and racism.This as most know is another classic that producers/directors saw fit to attempt a movie version. I'd known about the movie and may have even watched it very long ago but must not have been impressed because I remembered nothing but the fact that I "may" have seen it on cable possibly. As I neared the half way point in my reading I discovered it again was showing on cable, I recorded it and was looking forward with much anticipation to watching this version and comparing it to the movie. I don't know why because most movie versions fall severely short of their written counterpart that it's almost a waste of time to bother, however, I was interested. Well, after watching the movie I must admit.. my original apprehensions were correct. It fell short. Liberties were taken adding dialog that did not exist or changed the magnificence of the written version. Essential dialogs, characters, scenes were omitted and therefore took away the depth that this wonderful work carries within it. It changed the whole message I believe the author was trying to deliver. I found myself shaking my head and eventually yelling at the screen, "that did not happen!! What are you doing, you're ruining it!" It's so sad that some such wonderful, pivotal works of fiction just can't get their just due in film form. My advice is, if you've seen this movie, forget it, go pick up the book! If you read this book, just forget a movie exists until hopefully Hollywood picks up the topic again (like they did with Gatsby) and hopefully does a better job at it.I give this book all 5 stars because it deserves it. I would love to go back at some later time and re-read this book giving it more time to quote lots of essential lines, dissect characters and contrast and compare the scenes, atmosphere and history and how it applies to us now in the real world. Again, this is an important piece of literature. I recommend to everyone because this is a required reading. It's not a difficult read at all and you will be consumed. It is a serious modern, classic read though, so if you're into comedy, horror, fantasy or chick lit, this isn't for you.