My first HF book on ancient Rome, and I must say am impressed. Royal family kept providing so much drama and entertainment.Story is told from PoV of Claudius, a stutterer and a cripple, also widely considered a dimwit by his own family. And because people thought him to be a fool, unambitious and harmless to Roman throne that he outlived his siblings and cousins, who were poisoned or died in mysterious circumstances. Since Claudius was considered incapable of taking part in politics, he became a historian and started writing books about his ancestors and many other famous people. No one paid attention to poor Claudius.Over the course of this book we get to read about three emperors; Augustus, a brilliant and bright one but its his wife who ruled him and Rome in reality, Tiberius, a very clever opportunist but mistrustful and timid man, and last but not the least Claudius's nephew Caligula, a mad man in every sense. Claudius did a wonderful job in describing these three and their reign in addition to politics, crucial events and effect royals killing each other in their quest for power.A big portion of this book was dedicated to Germanicus, Claudius's brother. He was a great warrior and won numerous battles for Rome against Germany. It was his bad luck that Tiberius was emperor than who put his trust in bad people and Germanicus suferred badly for this. It was sad to see his end.While this book was full of shocks, deaths, betrayals, incest, assassinations, and political ambitions, it became dull in middle. Each chapter was very detailed but it also dragged but the book picked up again when Caligula became emperor. His outrageous deeds brought back all the fun in the book.One of the character that I must mention here is Livia, wife of Augustus. She was responsible for the deaths of half of royal clan and other half bowed to her for either they're too scared of her or because she was the only one who could have made their political dreams a reality. But even with this fearsome image, she truly ruled the Rome when Augustus and Tiberius were emperor. She was the mastermind who ruled Rome and she did an amazing job of it.All in all it was a great book on Rome, very informative. This is an apt read for those who love historical fiction.