House of Hades Review:(Pre HoH release review near the bottom somwhere...)EDIT: May, 2014So... a confirmed Nico point of view for BoO... interesting...Contains House of Hades spoilersUmmm... so House of Hades was kind of epic. I'm just trying to figure out where to start here... how about IT WAS TOO FREAKING SHORT!So, it was almost 600 pages. And it was awesome, but I can't help feel that itstillcould have been longer. As many Tartarus chapters as there were, they were all short. And Piper only got one section of chapters. Which, don't lie, was a pretty bad-A Khione confrontation.Speaking of POV's, I was really happy to see Frank again. He has such a subtle humor that I love. And the whole thing on the bridge, I just loved it. Another thing Iloved... HOLY CALYPSO! I got teary at the end of that part. It was so sad. I actually got the feeling that the two of them were perfect for each other. And the thing at the end of that part with the prophecy. It's all starting to come together!Even Jason was likable in this book. Though I don't like the pro-Camp Jupiter feeling I'm getting from Percy, Jason choosing Camp Half-Blood was a nice little twist! Well, not quiet a twist. We all knew he liked Camp Half-Blood better. And, come on, wealllike Camp Half-Blood better. Jason was also a pretty good leader in this book. He's still not one of my favorites, but he kept everyone on track. I'm really starting to get that feeling that they are all a group. Hazel and Piper started getting along and Leo got Frank that fire-proof pouch. InMark of Athenathe seven (plus Nico) weren't really used to each other yet, but I think all of those problems were fixed in this book. They are all a much betterteamthan they were in past books.And Percy and Annabeth were adorable. I mean, Percy only got to nap once theentiretime, but it was all so perfect. And the pen writes in bronze, and Bob, and Small Bob, and that scene with thearai.I liked that Annabeth got a cool sword and the whole Tartarus being alive thing was terrifying. I also noticed that they used theirdelaytactic a lot in this book. Like, does anybody have any idea how many times someone stalls for time in this book? Not like I had problem with it, they are always hysterical when they delay. The tourist thing at the place of Night killed me. And then of course the next Jason chapter Frank picks up atouristbrochure.Also, I was so shocked that nobody died in this book. Rick had me so convinced that two people were gonna die.1. Nico or Hazel2. Leo or JasonI thought one person from each of these groups was going to go. He made me so certain that two of these four people weren't going to make it to see the epic last battle. Now if no one died in this book... how many are gonna die in the next one?And now on that wonderfully happy note I'm going toalk about... NICO. Oh my gosh, is it sad that I wasn't expecting this? I'm not one of those people who have a mega-fangirl crush on Nico, yet I still didn't see the signs earlier in the chapter. I guess I just expected it to be more of a brotherly Percy thing, but I'm actually totally okay with the way it turned out. It was important, but Rick didn't make ahugedeal of it. I think it was done very nicely, actually. Also,Dear Rick,We all though it was weird inMark of Athenawhen you said Nico had always had a huge crush on Annabeth. We know you planted it.Sincerely,I Knew I was Right And That That Never Happened.And how sneaky was it that he got rid of all the extra characters on that little "save the camps" quest. I was wondering why if there were only supposed to be seven demigods, what the heck were Nico and Reyna doing hanging around. But he fixed it, and he got rid of Coach Hedge,who's going to have a baby!Yay, Coach Hedge we all love you!This was also really a book of answering fans questions. We learned Reyna's full name, Annabeth's birthday, and if Percy's pen actually writes. He did a good job of packing all of our ridiculous questions into the book in normal ways. Way to go Rick!And how about that next title? Spooky right. I really like it. I just hope the cover isn't black, House of Hades is already dark enough that it would just look weird on my bookshelf. Oh, I'm sure the cover will be amazing as always.As much as I'm SO EXCITED for this next book, I don't know how I feel about Percy Jackson ending. I'm going to be really sad when it's all over, and just think, the end is only a year away...And did anyone else get that creepy Barnes and Noble exclusive map of Tartarus. It's really weird.Mark of Athena Review and pre-HoH release rantingWhy did MoA have to end so sadly! I hardly ever cry. Even when I saw Titanic my eyes just got a little teary. But THIS! THIS was the saddest/sweetest/most heartbreaking thing I have ever experienced. Probably that ever existed. I was SOBBING! It was 1:30 am and I'm surprised I didn't wake up my whole family with the inhuman noises I was making. The only thing that made me feel (just a tiny bit) better was when Nico said that Percy was the best demigod ever and I was like: "take that Jason!" Don't get me wrong, I like Jason. Percy's just better. So yeah, my heart is broken. Forever. On a side note I hope that Nico is a POV in House of Hades[UPDATE: yes, guysI knowthat there will be no Nico POV, but when I made this review I did not know that because the information was not yet released, sorry for any confusion]. (anybody else notice Rick's pattern of the last few books. The_____ of _____ ?) Yes? NO? Also, would I be alone if I said that I think Leo is going to play a huge role in the end of the series? Just a guess.Also, I've read the last two chapters like 5 times already and might I say that they are equally as sad every time? The worst thing about the first time, though, was that it was SO unexpected. Annabeth trips and you're like "Percy will save her!" and the book's like "lol no. They fall to their doom after a really cute moment." And then you're just like... (massive sob) "THAT'S SO CUTE AND SAD WAHHHHHH" in conclusion: I DID NOT EXPECT IT! def. his darkest (and one of his best) ones yet. Can't wait for House of Hades EEEEEEEP!Rick isn't too cruel so Percy and Annabeth will probably make it but it's still super sad. And to those of you telling Rick to write faster: I know! I don't want to wait either BUT considering that it takes some authors three years to write ONE book, he's actually pretty fast. AND would you rather him take his time and have it be AMAZING or have it come out earlier and SUCK because he didn't have any time? Exactly! I don't want to wait but we have to!And come on, you know the pain is actually really fun. It makes the book even better when you get it! Plus it gives us more time to enjoy the series AND we still have 2 years until the end... And it will all be over... And I'll have nothing to do............UPDATE 11/26/12*SPOILER*On Rick's blog it said that we WILL be hearing from Percy/Annabeth (my bet is on a Percy POV) in HoH and that in the end Nico can tell that they are alive. YAYAYAYAYAYUPDATE 5/31/13WOW. The cover. WOW. It's so creepy I honestly cannot stop staring at it. They look like zombies! I love it! Also, has anyone seen the U.K. cover? I like how the U.S. and U.K. covers are always sort of similar. I think they want us to think certain things. Like the MoA cover, we all thought that Percy and Jason were going to fight because on BOTH covers it showed them in deceiving battle positions.. Now, the HoH covers show Annabeth and Percy in peril. I likes it.Also, guys. Seriously. Rick Riordan tweeted the link for the official unveil and on the link it said that the cover was a nice Percabeth moment. This means that, IT IS NOT NICO on the cover you guys. That sword is bronze NOT iron. Get a grip. Also, the whole 'NICE Percabeth moment thing' that I just mentioned means that Percy is not dragging Annabeth because he is possessed. I understand that you cannot see his eyes perfectly, but... guys. IT IS A DRAWING! Please forgive me, but I don't think that there is too much hidden in this cover.Yes, I agree it is weird that their clothes are messed up. I will give you credt on that because I don't know if it's spiderweb or prison clothes as some of you are suggesting or what. Another thing that I am unsure of is the weird river/path of souls or whatever that is on the bottom. So come up with whatever predictions you want on that, it will not bother me. But people... that is PERCY he is NOT POSSESSED, and to add a third thing I love Annabeth's hair. She is Rocking the hair ribbon. (totally relevant)Oh, and Leo... On the blurb/synopsis thing it said that Leo wondered how they were going to close the doors without someone staying behind and... I'm really scared! It said Leo wonders, LEO. would they mention JUST Leo if something bad wasn't going to happen! I'm sure though that if anyone dies Rick Riordan will do it right. Still, that will be a VERY emotional scene if it happens.One last thing! On the U.K. cover Annabeth has a knife. YES! At the end of MoA I was freaking out because her knife and laptop fell. I had hopes that they would find them in Tartarus. I am happy to say that with proof from the U.K. cover that they possibly will find them. Maybe. I'll probably be back for another update when we get the sneak preview in a few weeks.SO EXCITED!UPDATE 7/10/13Last week the first chapter for The House of Hades was released to the public. I know that it took me a really long to update what I thought, but trust me. I read it as soon as I had the chance. This first bit of The House of Hades is in Hazel's point of view. I love every single characters in these books, and I'm glad that they are all getting equal chances to speak.The only reason that I have not talked about this chapter sooner is because I felt that there isn't much to say. It was fabulous and it set up the book for a ton of interesting things. What is Hazel going to have to do when they get to the doors? How much does Nico know? Yes, there are many crazy questions raised and, as I said, it is an amazing first chapter. There just isn't as much to question in it as there was for both The Son of Neptune and the Mark of Athena.Rick Riordan has done a great job as always and I cannot wait to read the rest of the book!P.S. What do you think book 5 might be called? I know that we won't find out until October, I was just wondering some of your opinions!