See more reviews atYA Midnight ReadsSo the air was acid. The water was misery. The ground was broken glass. Everything here was designed to hurt and kill.I have never been a fan of including gifs. in my reviews however The House of Hades, calls for some exception. Not only have I been dying for a year to read this, but also because right now, I'm a mess of emotions and words. I mean, I was already crying when my mum snagged a copy for me while I was at school the second the bookstore opened. And then I abandoned all my review books so I could read The House of Hades ASAP because... IT'S THE HOUSE OF HADES, DUH. Proceed onwards!Picking up from where the torturous The Mark of Athena left off, we have Hazel, Frank, Leo, Jason, Piper, Nico and Coach Hedge on the Argo II, on the way to meet Percy and Annabeth on the other side of The Doors of Death. However the task is not that simple, a war is brewing between the Greeks and Romans, Gaia is becoming stronger... and the Athena Parthenos needs to be in its rightful place. The House of Hades, second last book before the finale (which has been named The Blood of Olympus) has a little something for all types of readers. Action, mythology, humour, romance, sacrifices, war and monsters are all present. And, trust me people; you will not be disappointed--no matter how high your hopes were, no matter how excited you were, no matter how much of your body you would sell for this. No. Disappointments. YAYA!The House of Hades, has whopping 7 main characters and 2 sub-main characters. Crazy? Yes. It has always been my greatest concern that The House of Hades would make my brain hurt from attempting to distinguish apart such an ample number of personalities. Yet,I seriously love love loved the characters in this book. Percy, our hero since the beginning has never been more selfless and humorous. He may be kickass but he still has one big big heart--and a very funny personality. However I couldn't help but think that Bob the Titan, (yes, Bob is back!) was one of the more laughable characters here. Percy had a little less due to his situation, a.k.a in the deepest part of hell. Annabeth, wholly badass, full of hope and smart. Always with a plan. While Percy and Annabeth are in Tartarus, they face some of the biggest challenges and curses of their lives--their abilities are stretch to their maximum and above. And their romance was like THE SWEETEST EVER. I'll admit, their isn't as much as I was wishing for but Rick Riordan makes it the most realistic and every time they'd hold hands I was likeTogether, they make an ass-kicking team.Hazel was actually one of the more important ones in The House of Hades. I grew rather attached to her, she's so determined to save everyone, so full of heart, so determined. I really wanted to tackle hug her. Leo, our cool guy with plenty of cute arrogance. Frank, lots of character development in this one, our shy and unsure one. Coach Hedge, we go a little more into his history and still and get plenty of his love for killing and butchering. And Nico! OMG. My fictional crush &lt;3 I did get heartbroken though. Heart. So. Broken. Into. Shreds.Piper and Jason... they were just meh. As usual. Not that they ruined my enjoyment of the book but I am just no fan.I do think, while Percy Jackson and the Olympians and The Heroes of Olympus are full of fun and action, it's also been teaching me a lot of Greek Mythology and Roman Mythology along the way, in fact, I've become really interested in Greek Myths, and am planning to learn more about religion and mythology for my free electives at school which is exciting. I am so, so grateful to have read this series. Some books, you read and love but they may not teach you as much as this one. Rick's books come with the extra of some knowledge. If an author can teach a bit of Greek Myths while writing an attaching story, I do believe that all MG and YA readers so give this series a go.All in all, The House of Hades was no disappointment apart from the fact that I have to wait ANOTHER year for the sequel. *cries*