FINAL REVIEWHOLY HOUSE OF HADES. MY EMOTIONS. THE FEELS. I CAN'T.That book was freaking amazing. The year wait was SO WORTH IT.Behold the actual dedicated page: "To my wonderful readers: Sorry about that last cliff-hanger. Well, no not really. HAHAHAHA. But seriously, I love you guys."After reading that dedication page, I just died a little from the awesomeness that is Rick Riordan. You are officially my favorite author, the author who not only is able to transform a wonderful world of mythology into a gripping story that captures you from page one with wonderful characters that you all fall in love with, but an author who introduced me to the wonderful world of reading at the age of 10 with the Lightning Thief.So many things happen in this book that just completely blow me away.First, the character development. You would think with over 7 important characters all uniquely different, an author would have immense trouble really connecting and developing the characters. NOPE, not for Rick Riordan. Not only does he really go deep into intercharacter relationships and making sure you get to know them, he makes you fall in love with them. He makes you so emotionally invested in the characters that have you screaming in joy or gripping your book (or in my case, Nook) in terror out of fear something bad is going to happen to them. He has you sobbing into your pillow, he's that good. On top of that, every single character development has a purpose, one that contributes and drives the story forward.Holy Hades, Nico. DID NOT EXPECT THAT AT ALL. It completely changes your WHOLE PERSPECTIVE on him. I can't go in anymore without spoiling it.Hazel. I am going to be honest. When she was first introduced, she was honestly not one of my favorites. I was just like "ehh..." when I first met her. This book completely changes that. She becomes so awesome, not just personality wise, but power wise too. Best combination ever.Same goes for Frank. He got more awesome. I'll leave it at that.Leo. I finally feel like there is some kind of closure for Leo that has been eluding him for like the past 3 books. And his romance?(view spoiler)[I SHIP HIM AND CALYPSO SO HARD IT ISN'T EVEN FUNNY.(hide spoiler)]The setting. Oh my Lord, the world building continues to be phenomenal. I think I have learned more about Greek mythology from the Percy Jackson series than like anywhere. What is so refreshing about this series is that Rick Riordan doesn't just make up random things to complement his stories. He uses ACTUAL GREEK AND ROMAN MYTHOLOGY and gives them a fun twist while keeping them factual. It's just amazing. The descriptions, just everything ugh, is perfect.I really don't know what else to say that can give props to this book's world building and setting.The plot is amazing, just in case you didn't know. It grips you, but Riordan's style of story telling just makes it impossible for the reader to like put the book down to go do work. But, Rick Riordan does something other than just create plot. He uses it as a mechanism to not just give characters meaningful growth, but the reader as well. The messages he peppers in makes you nod in appreciation.All in all, I recommend this book for everyone. I am not ashamed to say that I am a senior in high school geeking out and having feels and emotional attacks while reading them, and I also am not ashamed to say that I probably will keep doing that forever and ever even when I am an adult. The Percy Jackson series are amazing. Rick Riordan is amazing. This book is amazing. So go read it now. Fortunately, Rick Riordan does not end this book in a cliffhanger or I might have died. But, on a different note, I am also extremely sad and nostalgic that the next book will be the last in this series... and perhaps possibly the end of the era of Percy Jackson.But I am happy to announce that I am here for the journey and will relish every moment of it. Blood of Olympus, bring it on. Rick Riordan, I wait hereimpatiently for your next book in great eagerness and anticipation.In short,Update: 2/6/2013IS THAT THE REAL COVER???2012Is there a law in this country where we can get our favorite authors to write faster???October 2013? THIS ISN'T FAIR! HOW CAN YOU LEAVE US ON THAT HEART WRENCHING CLIFF HANGER!?? WHY!