Post reading:*Long sigh*Review to come.Edit:I'm changing my mind about Frank's percentage.I give him a 75% chance of survival.But Lyza, you say, isn't Frank the most likely to die? His life depends on a stick! It was explicitly stated in SoN that he would die holding the stick in his hand, and it would be sooner rather then later. That implies that the stick isgoing to burnat some point in the series, right?Exactly, my friends. Exactly.Rick Riordan has drawn so much attention to this stick that he's basically painted it orange and waved it around like...I don't know, what do you call those things that people use to signal airplanes? Those things.Uncle Rick has been basically, flat outtelling usthat Frank has a stick, the stick is going to burn, and Frank is going to die.Forgive me if I find the fact that this is emphasized so much rather suspicious.Then again, Riordan could always pull a 180 and actually kill him. I could easily be wrong.50 days to go!EDIT:COVERCOVERCOVERCOVERCOVERCOVERCOVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!IT'S SO PRETTY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!...He's going to kill off Leo isn't he.I mean, think about it, even though I'm a Leazel fan, I think it's pretty obvious that Frank and Hazel will end up together, and Percy and Annabeth...You know what, I think I'm just going to state survival percentages because I'm still in a coma from MOA and I need to straighten out my mind. So.Percy - 97% chance of survival. I doubt that Uncle Rick would kill him off (permanently). He's Percy after all.Annabeth - 93% chance of survival. Percy and Annabeth are the main characters, this is (supossedly) a childrens book, and besides, I just really think they're both going to live. It's the other characters I'm worried about...Jason and Piper - 85% chance of survival each. I think they're more likely to die then Percy and Annabeth, but less likely then everyone else. To be honest, I don't care for them that much. Moving on.Hazel - 70% chance of survival. She's already died once. Killing her off again would be extremely cruel. Then again, her being alive is sort of stretching the rules of nature a little bit...Frank - 55% chance of survival. I mean, his life depends on a stick, folks. He's very vulnerable. However, I do think he's more likely to live than Leo, just because, well, he's obviously the easiest to kill. It would be a just a teensy bit...predictable.Nico - I would say it's 50/50 here.And so we come to my poor baby:Leo. Who I'm only giving a 30% probability of surviving, much as it breaks my heart to think about it. Why? Several reasons.1. The fortune cookie. I am not convinced that Percy and Annabeth falling into Tartarus was the price. When Leo thought to himself that they had been the price he'd paid, I was thinking "Are yousureabout that Leo? Are yousure?"I'm not sure. It seems to me that it would be very Rick-like to make us think that the price has been paid but it hasn't.2. The whole Frank-Hazel-Leo love triangle extravaganza. I have a sneaking suspiscion that Hazel will have to go back to the underworld andsomeoneis going to take her place. Or Frank and Hazel will end up together and Leo will just randomly die. Or...3. Let us all remember that it wasLeowho reflected that someone who had to close the doors from the Tartarus side would be stuck there. This makes me worried.A side note: I wonder, have wereallydiscovered all there is to the Sammy thing? I am convinced that somehow, some part of Sammy's soul is in Leo. NOTHING SHALL DISSUADE ME.However, all this aside, I doubt that any of the seven will die until the last book.So, yeah. Probably this book will end with Gaia awakening and everything looking very grim for our heros (especially one or two of them...)But look on the bright side! We don't have to waittwoyears! Only one.We can do it guys!!!!!!(maybe)Edit: October 8? Well, at least it's not theexactsame week as the last Divergent book, but still probably same bookstore trip...I sense impending doom.Edit March 8, 2013:GUYS.ONLY SEVEN MORE MONTHS.WE'RE ALMOST HALFWAY THERE.GUYS.The worst is behind us, since now we can look forward to the cover and blurb and page count and first chapter and aslfjd;lEdit March 13, 2013THERE'S A PAGE COUNT! Is it legit though? It's exactly the same as the one for MOA, and I really don't see how they could know it yet since the books probably not even finished yet...Edit April 8SIX MONTHS PEOPLE.