I really did enjoy this book. It is narrated in the same style at the Twilight book in the first person. The things that make this book really good are the internal dialogue between the main characters Melanie and Wanda. I am told that this did not work too well in the movie, but as a book it makes great interesting reading.The story an alien invasion has happen we the humans have lost or have we? The Aliens call themselves Souls; they think it is the closest translation from our language. They are parasitic/symbiotic in nature. They are inserted into through the back of the neck and attach themselves to our brains and control our bodies. They have done this on at least eight other different planets. The society seem to have 3 classes Healers their Doctors, Seekers their police force, and the general populace (they are never referred to as more then Souls). Their occupation seem more a seeking of knowledge and experiences that maliciously or ambitious. The aliens so not seem to be well armed and do not like violence. The Invasion has been more of stealth slowly taking over people and their neighbours before any realised. Most of the technology seems to have been concentrated on healing and space travel.The reason I ask the question is did ne lose is because on all the other planets they have conquered they have never met a species that is a conflicted, emotional and diverse all at the same time. The other species offered little or no resistance and the aliens were just accepted. The Aliens seem to have no personality of their own in their natural states. The personalities seem to be the sum of their experiences from previous and current hosts. The only real method of telling if some have been taken over is their eyes.Melanie is one of the few humans left, till she is captured, she tries to kill herself rather then submit to being taken over, but the aliens heal her body. The Soul she is bonded with is called the Wanderer, because of all the worlds she has visited but never settled on for more than one hosts life time. Usually this is it the Soul takes over and replaces the Host with full access to their memories and carries on living their lives. Melanie being the fighter she is refuses to go quietly he is presence and voice constantly with the Wanderer. As the story goes on we find this is happening more and more strong will Humans refuse to be giving the aliens' full control.Using or being led by Melanie, Wanderer finds possible the last outpost of pure Humans. If she has any hope of surviving Wanderer must make peace with Melanie; then together they must try and convince the humans they mean no harm. Both sided must put aside their preconception of the other and try to find common ground. This is a great story about the human spirit. The language is definitely at a higher level than Twilight probably because Meyer has realises her fans have grown older. Meyer's writing style has a good story telling flow to it. I enjoyed reading the whole book. The only think I would grip about is the lack of action in the book; there was more action in the football game and the bonus chapter "Alone" then in the rest of the book. However she was writing more for emotional content then action. This is an intelligent different story, seen through the eyes of both Humans and aliens.