GAH!!!!AAAAGGH!!!SODTODSHT!!AHAAHOSHDTO!!!!!DSODHTOHDTOHTOSDHTSHHHHHHTHIDSDOIOSHDTOIH!!!Those are more accurate phrases, more fitting descriptions of my reaction at the end of this book. Unfortunately, those cannot be precisely translated into the English language.Holy Crap. HOLY CRAP!! I can't even process my thoughts to write a review for this. This book was so stunning, so amazing, so crazy good that I can't even describe it. XD I'm extremely impressed of Stephenie Meyer. This beats Twilight by a long shot; it's SO much better. She writes so much better in this book, and the complex, in-depth plot is nothing compared to Twilight's shallow one.The idea is so cool. The characters are awesome and lovable. Stephenie Meyer is incredibly skilled with emotion; that's her strongest suit. She writes emotion in a way that makes you feel everything the character feels. When the character is in pain, the reader is in pain too.Meyer writes love in a way that makes you love everything and everyone the character loves with a strong passion. Even though he was just a character, I loved Jamie as strongly as if he was my own brother. And I was in love with Ian as strongly as if I was Wanda and he was actually real. Stephenie Meyer is a queen of emotion; I don't think anyone can write it like she can.This was just so much better than Twilight, and that was so relieving. Even though I enjoyed Twilight, it's nice to see that the same author is capable of writing something that isn't shallow in the slightest, and writing something so much better than Twilight. This book just blew me away.I actually cried at the end. In fact, I cried several times throughout the book, it was so good. :) The funny thing is, I didn't cry at the end because of the reason that everyone else cried. I cried because what everyone thought was the end of the book, WASN'T the end. I cried because Meyer changed it from the perfect, bittersweet sad ending, to a happy-dovey ending. I wish she made the ending the chapter before the last, the one before she skipped pages in the book. (I'm trying not to spoil things here ;D.)Apparently, Meyer is making a second book. I kind of wish she wasn't. While it would be nice to read the next one, I feel like The Host would be best as a stand-alone novel, and to make it into a series would just ruin it. This is a storyline that would best not be continued. I don't know.Anyways. The Host is a phenomenon and everyone who hasn't read it must go get it now. It is an essential read. XD