So much potential in this book.I don't understand why Stephenie Meyer isn't continuing the sequels and it's been 8 years since this was published. I loveTwilight Sagabut this is better and I'm not kidding. I have watched the movie first without any idea of the story and I really enjoyed it but my reading experience was incredible."Souls" are parasitic like aliens invading the humans on Earth making them as theirhost. These souls lived for thousands of years and have taken over many living things but humans are challenging because some of them are resistant to be inhabited. With a surgical procedure, these parasites were put in their hosts and they gain access on their memories. It's their decision to adapt their host's memories or erase them completely and make a new identity for themselves. Mostly, they erase them and it's like killing their souls but the body remains alive.The concept is fascinating, unique and intriguing. Despite of the slow pacing, everything in this book is intricate.Our main characters areWanderer/Wanda, a soul andMelanie Stryder, a human. Wanderer occupies Melanie's body but Melanie's memory is strong and vivid and her presence makes it difficult for her to fully take over. These two communicated through the mind and somehow shared a bond.Wanderer is a special soul. She's humble, selfless and caring. While Melanie is a courageous, tough and bold woman.These two were different in some ways but they are both complex and I love them equally as heroines. They helped each other to find Jared Howe, Melanie's boyfriend and Jamie, Melanie's younger brother and locate Jeb's hideout (Melanie's uncle) which is an enormous cave.There are other humans in the cave and they are against Wanda to live with them. It took time before they got used to her and assured that she's not going to expose them to Seekers. Wanda adapted to human ways and she really appreciate their acceptance to her. She works hard and even it's dangerous, she helps on raids later on.The romance in this book is fascinating. It is a love triangle (but not really) and it's well done.You don't know how torn I am between Ian O'Shea and Jared Howe.Goodness gracious, Jared is more of a bad boy than Ian. You know how I love bad boys but how can I resist Ian? He's so sweet, protective and gentle. I can't decide who I want. With Max Irons and Jake Abel portraying them? Perfect! Especially Max Irons ASDFGHJKL ;)Seriously, I am hoping Stephenie Meyer will continue writing the sequels. My waiting game is ON...forever.