So in May I made the decision that in between my ARCs and other TBR desires, I would make an effort to also re-read a few of my favorite books/series that I enjoyed before my Goodreads days and review them. Now my paperback copy is 1,059 pages and I have readVoyagerquite a few times andit is still my #1 favorite in the series.SPOILERS AHEADWhy? Well, when I was a rather unobservant 19 year old, I purchased this book at my local bookshop not realizing it wasactually book 3.Now, I wouldn't encourage future readers to treat any of the books like they're stand alones, suffice it to sayVoyagerwas an addicting read and I was so curious (because I had so many questions that needed answering) that I went back and bought books 1, 2, and 4. The rest of course is history..He gave you to me. Now, I have to give him back to you, MamaIf you haven't yet had theVoyagerreading experience, understand that Diana is going to tug at every emotional chord in your body. From Brianna and Claire's heartwarming good-bye to Jamie &amp;Claire's reunion to all the action at Lallybroch and beyond, prepare yourself for a lot of adventure. Also prepare yourself for the fact, Claire and Jamie willnot stay in Scotland.The first time, I read that I was a bit taken aback, but now I have certainly come to terms with it. Obviously, as I have read all the books to date it's such a minor thing now. But in the beginning it was a shocker.When did you break your nose?About three minutes after I last saw ye-SassenachDiana Gabaldon certainly re-introduces and introduces a number of characters to the novel. Something that no doubt brings a smile to every Russian novelist. Voyager is filled with Jamie and Claire 's missing years. The turmoil of post Culloden Scotland, Claire and Frank's difficult marriage, Jamie's time in prison, Claire's road to M.D., and a few surprises that keep us readers on our toes. To this day, I find it very easy to lose track of time especially when reading this particular novel.Do ye want me? Sassenach, will ye take me-and risk the man that I am, for the sake of the man ye knew?It's a lot too late to ask that. BecauseI 've already risked everything I had. But whoever you are now, Jamie Fraser- yes. Yes, I do want you.