This review can also be found atCarole's Random LifeAfter finishing the audiobook for the previous book in this series, Dragonfly in Amber, I found it very hard to move on to something else. My mind was still with Jamie. Even though I had planned to take a bit of a break between books, I ended up waiting only a couple of weeks before starting Voyager. I remember falling in love with this book the first time I read it and I am happy to say that I still am in love.My teenage daughter asked me what this book what about and I really had a hard time answering that question. It is about so many things. Mostly it is about Jamie and Claire. I love the fact that in this book that are no longer as young as they were in earlier books. They are in their 40's and have done a bit more living. I think that their maturity really shows in how they handle everything.This pair have both lived a remarkable lives up to this point. There were high points in this book and low points but beyond everything their love for each other never waivers. I think that the biggest strength of this book is how clearly the characters' emotions are felt on the page. The scene in the print shop made my heart melt. I have read the book before so I remembered that scene but it still got to me.This book is long. There are so many different things happening in this book and after one situation is dealt with they move on to the next one. I did start to feel a bit exhausted from this book towards the end. I still enjoyed every moment but I was starting to feel like I might deserve a medal once I reached the end. I do feel like this book has a more natural stopping point than the previous book. I plan to take a bit of a break before jumping into the next audiobook although I don't plan to wait very long.The narration for this audiobook was nearly perfect. Davina Porter is the perfect choice for this series. She is Clair and Jamie and all the other characters to me at this point. I never tired of listening to her voice and sometimes listened for up to four hours per day. I am amazed by how well this narrator is able to perform so many different voices and accents. I always knew exactly who was speaking and felt myself being pulled into the story. This audiobook is truly a wonderful way to experience this novel.I do highly recommend this book. This is not a series that you would want to read out of order and I don't think that this book would work at all as a stand-alone novel. Anyone who has enjoyed the first two books in the series will not want to miss this installment. This is the kind of story that fans read and re-read and find enjoyment in it every time.Initial ThoughtsI loved it but I have to admit that this book was starting to feel a bit long. Wonderful story, wonderful characters, and an excellent narrator...but did I mention how long this book is.Full Review to be posted soon.Before ReadingBecause I need a little more Jamie in my life....