Well, I am back to rekindle my love for Jamie Alexander Fraser. The second book left me in such an emotional turmoil, I just had to know how the drama ends. I cheated and flipped through pages of "Voyager" to get closure some weeks ago but now it is finally time to read and enjoy the book in full...Once again, Gabaldon doesn't disappoint. She has a talent for characterization and is a stellar storyteller, there is no doubt about it. Once again, she takes us on a fabulous adventure through times and countries. The first third of the book follows the stories of Claire and Jamie as they live separately for 20 years in their own worlds. I thought I would dislike this segment, but in fact it is by far my favorite part of the book. There is a lot of sadness, tragedy, loneliness and longing on these pages, as Jamie and Claire mourn each other's loss.When our couple get together, Gabaldon takes us on an emotional roller-coaster ride as Jamie and Claire try to re-discover each other and come to terms with their dark secrets of the past and their time apart, they are also forced to undertake a lot of traveling when all they want is to be together. Not to give anything away, but prepare yourself for an intense adventure through brothels, slave markets, sea voyage, Jamaican forests, etc."Voyager" is a great book, but again, I can't give it 5 stars. First, the shift in POVs. It bothered me some in "Dragonfly in Amber," but there is more of it in "Voyager." For the most part, the book is written in 1st person from Claire's POV, but some parts are written in 3rd person from the POVs of Jaime, Roger, Clare, and even Lord John Grey, even though he is a very-very secondary character. I am not going to say that the story itself suffers from it, but it creates a bit of a sloppy narration IMO.The other thing I didn't care for is the presence of mysticism. Granted, the time-travel itself isn't really something real, but the ending of the book just has way too much of "unrealness," too much of unexplained paranormal, in fact so much that I found it a little hard to swallow.Were Gabaldon not such an engaging writer, I probably wouldn't have forgiven these flaws. But she is one, and in spite of the flaws, "Voyager" is an irresistible combination of adventure, history, tragedy, violence, love, humour, and (last but not leas) smut. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and will undoubtedly read next installment - "Drums of Autumn."Reading challenge: #1 - V