I think I'm ready. . . Help!Well, maybe I'm weird but I found the movie scarier than the book. Don't get me wrong, there are a few parts that gave me the heebie jeebies, but overall it didn't get me like the movie. Just getting the gifs for this freaking review had me all creeped out!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! This book is very disturbing though. Reading the stuff about people in the Black Mass and what they were doing. Uggg, no.I thought about getting a copy of the movie to watch again since I have read the book but hell no. Just NO! The only reason I wanted to watch it again is because I wanted to see if they had some of the really disturbing things in the movie that were in the book. I wanted to see if they talked about all of the Black Mass stuff and different things that were in-depth in the book because I can't remember any of that stuff it was so long ago.I remember when I was younger I had a nightmare that she was coming after me on a bicycle! Lol, and it was scary as hell and seemed real. A bicycle though, heh!There is a part in the prologue that I didn't even realize was in another part of the movie until I read the book. It was about the demon when Father Merrin was overseas.The man in khaki prowled the ruins. The Temple of Nabu. The Temple of Ishtar. He sifted vibrations. At the palace of Ashurbanipal he stopped and looked up at the limestone statue hulking in situ. Ragged wings and taloned feet. A bulbous, jutting, stubby penis and a mouth stretched taunt in feral grin. The demon Pazuzu.Abruptly the man in khaki sagged.He bowed his head.It was coming.He stared at the dust and the quickening shadows. The orb of the sun was beginning to slip beneath the rim of the world and he could hear the dim yappings of savage dog packs prowling the fringes of the city. He rolled his shirtsleeves down and buttoned them as a shivering breeze sprang up. Its source was southwest.He hastened toward Mosul and his train, his heart encased in the icy conviction that soon he would be hunted by an ancient enemy whose face he had never seen.But he knew his name.This all started when Regan started playing with the ouiji board. People, just don't do it.Regan's mom Chris who is a movie star let her do it because she didn't think there was any harm in it. Although, she did have some trepidation when Regan started talking about a "Captain Howdy."Then things started to happen. Chris had Regan taken to all kinds of doctors and psych's until they finally said they need a priest. Ya think?Chris was able to get in touch with Father Karras through some peeps but he had to spend time with Regan to prove to the Bishop an exorcism was needed. The kind of proof he had to look for in the book was ridiculous. With all of the stuff going on with Regan they must have been out of their damn mind! That should have happened with no problems.And then we finally get Father Merrin =) I loved him and Karras.As the stranger reached up to remove his hat, Chris was nodding her head, and then suddenly she was looking into eyes that overwhelmed her: tht shone with intelligence and kindly understanding, with serenity that poured from them into her being like the waters of a warm and healing river whose source was both in him and yet somehow beyond him; whose flow was contained and yet headlong and endless."I'm Father Lankester Merrin," he said.At any rate, the movie and the book were disturbing. Both in their own ways. The movie was scarier but the book had more detailed, disturbing stuff. Now I can only read normal horror for awhile!!Enjoy!!!!MY BLOG:Melissa Martin's Reading List