Having recently seen a film calledThe Last Exorcism, I decided it was finally time to read thefirstexorcism, the one which made masses of people interested in demonic posessions, scared the beejesus out of readers and was made into one of the best films ever.I've seen the film several times, though I've never read the book. I always assumed that it was a cheap potboiler, heavy on shock value (who can forget the green vomit?) and thin on everything else. I was totally wrong.The Exorcistis a classic - but it is a good classic; it's notThe Castle of OtrantoorThe Monk, both of which haven't exactly stood the test of time;The Exorcistis a classic in the way ofRosemary's BabyorI Am Legend, both of which will be remembered and savored by generations of readers in years to come.Since its original publication in the 1971 (what a shock that must have been), the genre known as "horror" expanded broadly, and people's tolerancy towards controversy and shock in fiction has vastly increased. So what does makeThe Exorciststill so strong a novel after almost forty years since its first printing?It's not the shock, nor the scare;The Exorcistwas written when no one even thought about countless horror movies and novels that would be so cheap and poor that they'd make people think twice before watching/reading something that would be dubbed with that name. Falls of blood and mountains of dead bodies succesfully dimmed any scares and frights that the reader could have experienced when he was reading this novel in the early 70's. No, no; what affects us so strongly is the inner turmoil of people who live in this text. It's not the monster; it's those he's after. The scary things get old easily and are quickly succeeded by even more scary and gruesome creatures and concepts; the people dealing with them stay the same. Each decade, each year a new icon of evil is introduced and abolished, butfear...fear stays the same.The plot ofThe Exorcistis widely known to practically everyone, but if you haven't read the book or seen the movie I strongly encourage you to do both - in that order - and then come back to read my ramblings. HERE THERE BE A DISCUSSION WHICH REVEALS PLOT POINTS AND THE CONCLUSION OF THE NARRATIVE.The Exorcistopens in northern Iraq, at an excavation site where we first meet Father Lankester Merrin, an elderly priest who's the leader of the excavation dig and has just came upon an interesting discovery - a small statue of a demon juxtaposed with a St.Joseph medal. Father Merrin feels the omen of an ancient, malevolent force looming over him.Meanwhile, in Georgetown, a young girl named Regan MacNeil becomes inexplicably ill. The enrgetic and happy child drastically changes and her mind seems to slowly deteriorate. But to her mother, Chris, something is wrong with Regan on an entire different level - strange noises are heard, objects move in her room. Chris seeks medical help, but the doctors can't find evidence for their theory about Regan's condition being caused by a lesion in the temporal lobe of the brain.Regan's condition worsens - she spits countless obscenities and starts speaking in several languages - and the most shocking image of all: she masturbates with a crucifix. She has strapped down to the bed for her own protection as well as of those around her - Regan's strenght is almost inhuman. The figure bound to the bed doesn't even resemble Regan - it claims to be the devil himself.Desperatedly, non-religious Chris turns to the Jesuit priesthood for help - she wants an exorcism to be performed on her daughter. Enter Father Damien Karras.The descriptions of Regan's demonic behavior - the famous 180 turn of her head - are not as impacting as they were in the 70's, but they still serve their duty well. However, as I said before, it is not the physical manifestation of the demon that is important - it's how people deal with the posession.Chris asks Father Karras to perform an exorcism - an ages old ritual used by the Church to purge the demons out of the posessed. Father Karras explains that a priest cannot simply perform an exorcism and has to get a persmission from the Church - speaking simply, he needs evidence. Father Karras is reluctant to approach his superiors - he is struggling with his own innter turmoil. The horrible sense of betraying his mother as he left her old and alone to enter the priesthood, with scatters of his childhood memories that deepen his sense of guilt. The Father doubts his faith, and he struggles to keep his belief. We see him as an emotional and troubled being, for whom a request to perform the ancient ritual comes as something totally unexpected and irrational. It is the Priest who encourages the non-believing mother to seek out medical help. The priest doesn't want to perform the exorcism, hewantsRegan's case to be scientifically explainable; he wants to think of the exorcism as a forgotten superstition of past times. He seeks proof to encourage the woman that her daughter's condition can be healed medically, taunts what he believes to be Regan's unconsciousness taking the form of "demons" about whom she's heard or read in books. But his quest takes an unexpected turn when he sees two words appearing on Regan's stomach, like stigmatas: HELP MEFather Karris turns to the Church for the persmission to do the exorcism, and it is granted to him though he's not allowed to actually perform the ritual. He will be the assistant to Father Merrin, who is revealed to have been suspecting the encounter all along - it's revealed that a long time ago he performed an exorcism in Africa, and it's suggested that the exorcism has wounded him physically, though not spiritually. Father Merrin is a figure that provides comfort and solace to the troubled, but he is old; when he faces the demon it recognizes him, and mocks the elderly priest by saying that this time he will lose.Nevertheless, Father Merrin and Father Karras set out to perform the exorcism.The lenghty ritual tires the priests, both physically and mentally. Father Merrin is strong spiritually but his flesh is long past its prime; though he's desperate to perform the ritual till the demon is exorted, his body fails him and he dies before the demon is casted out.The demon lavishes in his victory, mocking the dead priest; but it is this moment where wheels are turned. The demon is arrogant and pitiless, doesn't consider Father Karras a worthy opponent because it detected doubt in him; however, it is Father Karras who will defeat him. After seeing Father Merrin's sacrifice, Karras decides to give his life for the life of the posessed girl. The demon operates by low means, occuping innocent, defensless children to gain its goals, and it doesn't even acknowledge the idea of selfless love displayed by the priest for the girl. The demon outmathced both priest in a spiritual duel, because of Father Karras's doubt; but faith is more than a matter of doubt, it is goodness and selflesness that is displayed by Father Karras in the ending sequences. The demon is not even sucpecting the troubled priest to be able for such sacrifice and when Father Karras becknons him to enter his body, he lets go of the girl and accepts the invitation; Father Karras uses the remains of his strenght to jump out of the window, and dies at the pavement.In the finale of this dramatic conclusion Father Karras is not brought back to life by God, as some could have expected; he's dying fast, but he dies fulfilled, having captured the demon within him and therefore freeing the girl. He dies free of burden and guilt; his life had purpose, just like Regan's - The demon chose the girl to lure Father Merrin to face him, just as Father Karras was chosen to face the demon and defeat him. But chosen by whom? Blatty gives us the benefit of doubt and doesn't enforce any ideology on the reader, but he also gives us the benefit of hope by emphasizing the inner strenght of the human spirit and faith in the most dire conditions.I'm glad I've finally readThe Exorcist, though I'm also glad I waited so long to do it. The novel offers an insight into the mind and soul of the tragically troubled character of Father Karras, a profound vision that is much more fascinating that all of the demons combined. It illustrates how fragile human spirit can be, but also how strong when it is armed with love and purpose. Heartily recommended.