What a thrilling, frightening ride!I first read the Exorcist in 1974 when I was only twelve years old. At that time the film had already hit the theaters and for those who lived during that era you will remember what a huge controversy the movie caused. My mother would not allow me to see the movie but she gave me the okay to read the book.The Exorcist has always held a special place in my heart because it is what I consider to be the first adult novel I ever read. I remember reading at night while at home alone and there were moments when I thought I was hearing noises outside and the sound of someone trying to open the backdoor. I know the term, frozen stiff, is real because I was so terrified that I wanted to run and hide but could not move. I went on from there discovering a world of literature and my love for reading just grew even more.I could be wrong, but I believe that The Exorcist will find itself in the annuls of history as a classic. Over the years there has been a myriad of movies and books dealing with the subject of possession and there can be no denying that The Exorcist is the foundation of all those tales.I am 53 now and was a little nervous when I started reading this one again. Like I said, the book has always been special and I was afraid that maybe it only seemed so good because I had only been twelve when I last read it...41 years ago! Well, like I said when I started this review, this was a thrilling and frightening ride. The book is still scary as hell.I can see where some readers might think that there are a lot of moments in the beginning that drag. There is an extensive section where Reagan is taken through a series of tests from doctors and psychiatrists to try and diagnose what is ailing her. Personally, I think this is what makes this story so powerful. It tries to prove from every angle possible that there has to be some kind of explanation for this girls illness, and even when possession is hinted at and a priest enters the picture, there is great skepticism on his part that this little girl is actually possessed by the devil.I had to smile inwardly several times while reading and wonder to myself, how the hell did I manage to get through this when I was twelve? Ah well, I did, and I am thankful for the experience and I have thoroughly enjoyed this re-read. I would recommend this book without pause, but I would do so with a warning. If you don't like to be frightened, this book is not for you.