I've had 'The Iron Fey' series sitting on my Audible shelf for quite some time. Paranormal/Fantasy isn't my "go-to" genre, but I was curious about this series after seeing some great reviews for it. Yet, every time that I was in the mood for this type of story there always seemed to be another book released that was higher up on my TBR priorities.I finally got around to listening to this audiobook on a recent cross-country family road trip. Since my children, as well as my 89 year-old grandmother, were in the car, my usual smutty romance selections were off the table. After all, I wouldn't want to be responsible for giving my grandmother a heart attack and I certainly wasn't prepared to answer any questions that might arise from my children related to something they might hear in a dark romance novel.Since this series is aimed at a younger audience, it ended up being the perfect time to give it a listen. Other than a few "mildly bad" words, which were no cause for a freak-out in my opinion, this book was clean enough for my girls (ages 5 and 10). It also had enough adventure and suspense to keep the adults in the car engaged in the story. While my youngest daughter wasn't exactly following the story closely, she did pay enough attention to pick up on the general theme and point out who her favorite characters were. I'm not sure that I could've found another series that would have worked as well for our group.The story centers on a high school girl, Meghan Chase. She is a heroine that is easy to relate to because she is flawed, but strong and personable. I appreciated the fact that Meghan was a good role model for young girls. She had the same insecurities of all young, teenage girls, but was able to rise above - and even make light of - teenage drama. Topics, such as bullying and body image were addressed, but not in an over-the-top, in your face kind of way that reeks of an after-school TV special. The author addressed these issues subtly and without much fanfare.Meghan's reality changes overnight, when she discovers that her younger brother, Ethan, has been taken into the Nevernever. A changeling has taken his place in the human world, while the real Ethan has been taken.Everything that Meghan thought she knew was wrong. The man that raised her, and disappeared when she was six, wasn't really her father at all. She is the daughter of Oberon, the King of the Summer Court. It ends up that Meghan is half faerie and not entirely human at all.In addition, her neighbor/best-friend, Robbie, is really "Puck", the faerie of legends. He had been sent by her father to watch over her for years. Revealing her true identity to her, Puck goes on to become her tour guide through the faerie world.As Puck and Meghan set out to find Ethan and return him to the human world, they embark on a series of adventures. Along the way, Meghan meets Ash, the Winter Prince, who becomes her love interest. Meanwhile, she must carry on in spite of the contempt of the Summer Queen, Titania and other members of the faerie courts that look down upon her because she is a "half-breed".From start to finish, I was captivated with this story. The characters were easy to relate to and the storyline was compelling. I was lost in the fantastical world that Julie Kagawa created. It was absolutely magical!Check out more of my reviews atwww.bookaddicthaven.com