There's just something so satisfying in reviewing a much hated book that I genuinely liked a lot.Or is that just me?See, when I'm in the minority, it's usually because I can't bring myself to understand the fucking appeal of some asshole who's loved by everyone and his cousins.The opposite is rarer, but it does happen.Proof'sThe Iron King. Even if I read it in 2014, back in the time when I was new to GR and barely back to reading, I won't change my rating. Here's why.Ilovedthis book.IlovedMeghan (I know, I know, *GASP* and the likes)Ilovedthe world.I regretnothing.This book managed to reach a part of me which had stayed forgotten for years.The part of me who watchedThe Never Ending Story, wide-eyed, and readAlice in Wonderland, eager to meet that odd cat and to visit whatever weird world on which I could put my hands."I don't even recognize myself." An image frashed through my head and I giggled with slight hysteria. " I won't turn into a pumpkin when midnight comes, will I? ""If you annoy the wrong people, you might."Welcome trolls and goblins and squirrels nails!I love you all already.Quickly I found myself completelymesmerized and captivatedby all the details brought to life by the descriptive writing."It's an elf," hissed another, giving me a toothy leer. "An elf what lost its ears, maybe.""No, a goat-girl," cried yet a third. "Good eatin', them.""She ain't no goat, cretin! Lookit, she ain't got no 'ooves!"I giggled out of amazement. All the time. This said, I can see how fairy lovers could be annoyed, because all the rules aren't respected. I honestly didn't mind this time (for some reason??), but hey, to each their own.As many readers pointed it,that's not the most interesting storyline that I had the chance to read about, yet I couldn't put it down and felt like it just clicked into place nicely. Actually I was on the verge of writing that the pacing was fast, when I remembered that the majority of readers grew bored in the middle of the book.That wasn't my case.At all. I don't know if that can be explained by the fact that I'm such a sucker for fantasy and always have, I don't have a damn clue about it. Sorry. Oh, well. That's my review after all, so perhaps it should be taken with a grain of salt, but in my opinion this book is compelling and fascinating, as it was such a page-turner for me .*shrugs*And in the end... Thesurprise. Indeed all the concept of Iron Fey is truly fascinating. I don't want to spoil potentiallatereaders like I was, so I won't say anything more about that but trust me : that's quite original and well, I loved it.Let me introduce you...The Infamous Meghan!!There's no denying that sheisn'ta kick-ass character, but you know, I'm feeling lenient with her because she never annoyed nor maddened me.Bu-bu-BUTANNA!EVERYONEHATES HER!Well, I don't? I'm sorry? But not sorry???Alright,let's be a little honest here, okay?Truth is, we all want to think that we would have morphed into some badass if we had been thrown into a fairy world at 16, and blablabla... Oh, wait. I don't want to think that. I alreadyknowthat I wouldn't have been. Nah.I, for one, would have bitched around, paid no attention to any rule, annoyed the wrong people, petted Grimalkin.... and probably ended dead.Just admit it already, you wish you could have known my teenager self.Or not. Okay. I can live with that, now that I'm the champion at adulting.Haha.What's the saying again? LET'S BE MERMAIDS???Anyway. Meghan."Time to switch to decaf, princess. If you're going to shriek at every bogey that jumps out and says 'boo', you'll be exhausted before we reach the edge of the woods."HOW can I be annoyed by Meghan if I shriek when I see a fucking spider? Huh? Meghan is no hero, but that's okay, because I didn't expect her to be. In my opinion she isn't dumb or infuriating, but she's actually prettyaverageand for me her personality fits perfectly in the plot developments. Furthermore, she knows her moments of pure awesomeness -"Stop it!" I hissed glaring at both in turn. "Stop it right now! Put your weapons up, both of you! Ash, you're in no condition to fight, and, Puck, shame on you, agreeing to duel him when he's obviously hurt. Sit down and shut up."Moreover, I really enjoyedPuckand no, that's not because his character is one of my favorite fromA Midsummer Night's Dream.Noooo.I couldn't trust him, but he made me laugh." Charming," Puck commented, gazing around in distaste. "I love the barren, dead feel they're going for. Who's the gardener, I wonder? I'd love to get some tips."Here. Have a cookie.Oh, and maybe you're waiting forAsh? Hmm... Can I just say that throwing ice darts is considered like cheating in my book?Yeah, yeah. I know. Brooding male-leads and all that. But I love him, period. Does their relationship flirt with instalove? Honestly? You really want to know? Sure?WELL.The Iron Kingis the kind of books where other reviews made me doubt myself.At the time I didn't get instalovish vibes coming from Meghan and Ash. Some scenes were surfing a little on that dangerous territory(view spoiler)[the kiss, for example(hide spoiler)]but overall I found it pretty slow? Did my instalove radar was broken? Maybe? Am I wrong?You know what? MAYBE, but I'm done trying to explain myself about that. It didn't bother me, I didn't feel what others felt, and I won't try and pretend that's the case.I shipped them. Whatever that says about me, I don't care. I also don't agree about the Bella vibes inThe Iron Daughter. Yes, yes, Meghan moped around at first, but let's be real :hello, she is *NOT* at home like Miss Bella. The rest is spoilers, but honestly?I would have fucking WHINED. There.*blinks*I have NO idea where it came from. I still love you, my friends.For more of my reviews, please visit: