...The prose can be confusing at the start...Repetition of names makes it challenging to keep track of who is who....Yet, this is a reading experience like no other ...."mysterious &amp; magical realism" ....comic novel yet exudes a strong undercurrent of sadness, sadness and tragic futility....The male characters are passionate sexuality and filled with ambition --...Most of the female characters have common sense, determination, and passionate eroticism...Both sexes can't seem to relate to the outside world of the town they are in ......The novel does cover 100 years....This is a huge Latin American Historical novel -multi-layered epic of the Buendia family. Its rooted in reality -the development of Colombia since its independent from Spain in the 19th century. Its not only a story about this family itself but of evolution of society from 'nothing' to social and family groups --as the town itself is as much the protagonist as the family is. We see the development of religion from fairy tales and magic moving forward into today's more modern world....There is ongoing intermingling of the fantastic and the ordinary throughout the story. Its fascinating to observe the magic evolve with the family and the village of Macondo --which they founded after leaving their home in the mountains --searching for the ocean. They failed to find the ocean--but they built their town on the edge of the great swamp....The town changes and is transformed by new inventions. "A heavy Man" sold Jose Arcadio Buendia a magnet -then later a telescope. --It was the gypsies who first brought these 'inventions'....Obsessions, solitude, love, and war are themes throughout ...Characters have different ways for masking their pain:...One girl eats dirt,...Some characters lock 'themselves' away physically,...One man loses his mind and is tied to a chestnut tree...Another man spends years writing on parchments -another man spends years trying to decipher them.... You really read about 'flying carpets' --...In 'some' ways this book reminds me of "Midnights Children" by Salmon Rushie. In both books the prose is lyrical that create deep visual imagery --magic -and fantasy....The ending of the story --seems to be about 'learning, then moving on'. ........A dazzling masterpiece!