Rather like the meme, which Dawkins so helpfully coined the term for, this book has permeated through many parts of our culture. And Dawkins himself has become synonymous with the Atheist movement. How else does a book garner more than 10 books published simply to refute it.The first half of The God Delusion is a thoughtful, fact based response to religion, one that I thoroughly enjoyed. The second half tended to veer away from science based theory to more personal opinions of Dawkin's and this was a mixed bag for me.The God Delusion is about raising the consciousness of people to the possibilities of atheism and the many follies of religion. Of the attributes of atheism, Dawkins has me hook, line and sinker. Of the follies of religion, I am less convinced. (Not to say that there aren't follies in religion, but I'm less concerned about them than Dawkins is.)I was, for a long time, both a fundamentalist Christian and a young-earth Creationist. And I asked myself many times if this book would have reached me, had I read it back then. There's no way to test my conviction that the book probably wouldn't have changed my mind. I can only say what did.That was my own, self-guided research. I decided to get to know my own religion more intimately by readingFrom Jesus to Christianity: How Four Generations of Visionaries and Storytellers Created the New Testament and Christian Faith,The Gnostic Discoveries: The Impact of the Nag Hammadi Library,A History of the Roman World 753 to 146 BCandThe Other Bible.I wanted to go from purely fact-based, research-focused books, perhaps because I already had a sense that what I was being told would be skewed. I had that sense, I believe, because I was lucky enough to be connected to more intelligent people who were not afraid to speak the truth. But they were also kind about it. I remember reaching out to Manny at one point to ask his opinion on the matter. He was very polite and thoughtful in his response and it, in turn, made me think and raise my consciousness.So the question of whether this book would have converted me goes somewhat unanswered. I say somewhat because, obviously, I didn't read this book. I made a conscious choice not to, at the time, due to Dawkin's reputation as being antagonistic towards religion. While I can say that the book is far more moderate than I expected, it certainly doesn't pull any punches.And maybe this comes to my final point which is Dawkin's inability to comprehend why discussing religion requires one to pull some punches. (As a point, I'm not saying be super nice to religious people, or hide your opinions.) He complains in the book why religion is treated differently by society than, say politics or sports.I can see why it is. Because leaving one's religion, seeing the truth and learning to change your worldview from everything you've ever known is an intensely painful, difficult thing to do - especially if you have been fundamentalist. There were nights I cried and was distraught. Nights I thought I was losing my mind. I clearly remember the confusion of trying to relearn the world. Remember, this is something I inflicted on myself, and it was confronting enough. Nobody was putting facts in my faces or forcing me to see the truth.So I respect Dawkins and the amazing work he's done, even if I don't agree with all of his opinions or all the ways he expresses himself. But maybe this book would have been even better if, like the first half, it had stuck to studies and research and veered less into gloves-off territory.DID ANY OF THAT MAKE SENSE?I don't know.