The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson Thomas H. Johnson, ed.--The Definitive Text, Accept No Substitute(c) Copyright 2012 Margaret Langstaff. All rights reserved. [from the forthcoming Reading Emily Dickinson by Margaret Langstaff]So often misunderstood and ill-served by her editors and publishers, Emily Dickinson is a rara avis among major American poets. She shunned the spotlight, kept to herself and her family in her home in Amherst, MA, refusing to cater to popular tastes. She never published in her lifetime, made in fact only a few overtures to editors who were so staid and conventional that they hadn't the insight or imagination to appreciate her originality. Yet on her death she left a dresser drawer-full of thousands of poems, variant versions, snippets, notes, a massive welter of handwritten manuscripts that required a herculean effort to sort and assemble into the works she considered "poetry" and to file the detritus as "jottings, random thoughts, random expostulations." Not until this definitive edition of her texts appeared in 1955, edited by the scrupulous, meticulous textual scholar and Dickinson expert Thomas H Johnson, did this poet get a fair shake and accurate representation in print of her life's work.Sadly most of what is parlayed online and in stores as her "poetry" is still butchered, and only amounts to sanitized, "regularized" versions of what she actually wrote, and the unsuspecting reader is none the wiser unless he or she happens to have studied Dickinson under a knowledgeable instructor or at the university level.If you want to read and understand her work, this edition of her poems must be the basis for your appreciation and judgment, and none other. All of her other so-called "editors" changed her meter, spellings, capitalizations (all of which were "odd" yet deliberate departures from the norm for poetic effect). I also highly recommend Richard B. Sewell's incomparable biography, The Life of Emily Dickinson. Immensely readable, even compelling, and bristling with telling details that place the poet within the context of her times and New England heritage, it gives one an even deeper appreciation of what she overcame ("renounced") to pursue her art, and illuminates dimensions and aspects of the poems otherwise hidden to the modern reader.I've studied Dickinson for over 30 years and written articles and a few books on her work and life, and I must say to any new reader: don't fall for the stereotypes, the cliches, and the b.s. aplenty that have always clouded her reputation and led the general public astray. Read deeply and see for yourself. Start by reading the "real" thing. Her finished poems as she wrote them, not as her editors "corrected" them and not the snippets and notes she made to herself to possibly work into poems.Both as an individual and as a poet she will always remain elusive, but then she believed in the mystery at the heart of life herself, considered her own life a mystery, but tried to approach the essence and experience of the luminous "mysterium tremendum et fascinans" by capturing its beauty and profundity with metaphor and lyric.Her Letters are also a treat, a treasure, for she was a devoted, loyal friend and tireless witty letter writer all of her life. Her epistolary style reflects to some degree her poetic penchants and inclinations, highly metaphorical, striking, surprising. In some ways they (the letters) are even more revealing of how she interacted with those whom she loved the most and are most telling of the qualities of her character and resonant of(if not fully disclosing) the particular pivotal events of her life.Certainly she was one of a kind, far more sophisticated and worldly than most think even today, shrewd, widely read, a critical insightful reader and observer of life's conundrums and vagaries, current events, including the Civil War, the issues of the day... Anyone who has read her seriously would be hard put to find a comparable poet or life in literature or body of work. Yes, other poets (one thinks of Hopkins, Roethke, literally hundreds of other poets in many ages), have shared her intuitions and, to a certain extent her insights, but none have produced lasting verse in her singular aphoristic and numinous style. As for myself, I cannot even think of any poet or body of poetry that "reminds me of Emily Dickinson" or is "reminiscent of Emily Dickinson." Nor is it easy or plausible to suggest she was significantly influenced by any particular poetic tradition or other poet, though she read widely and deeply, and occasionally reverentially, the works of all the major poets in English. Dickinson's uniqueness, her very singularity, inimitability, is (I believe) the hallmark of only the greatest poets, and by that measure it is safe to say she will be read and appreciated, at last, for a long, long time.Margaret Langstaff, April 2012