Since i'm impatiently waiting for Clockwork Angel to arrive (finally was dispatched yesterday) i decided to do a sum-up review at Cassandra's Clare The Mortal Instruments series (sequel of the Infernal Devices which include Clockwork Angel). I will try not to spoil more than the summaries have already done. Actually i will not spoil at all. Read it :)First of all, on Clare's writing style. What i can say...i love it. After Harry Potter i couldn't believe i could find a same-style world story to enjoy. Most of them were copying it or they were too predictable for me. And then it showed up! City Of Bones was translated in Greek by Platypus Publications. First i was amazed by the cover (i found really important a book has a good and attractive cover) and then i read the summery. I bought and finished it in less than 24 hours. Same came with the rest two books which i purchased in English. I have to admit that i love Clare's writing more than Rowling's. I do love HP but sorry guys TMI topped it for me(HP fans don't kill me). Clare write in a simple way which make you understand perfectly the situation and the places. It's really easy to become one with the book and live in her world. Also i like her humor much more and how she puts her characters in. Finally a book which hasn't a miserable main character or something like that. They all know why they are there and they are accepting what's is going on in a normal way. According to their personalities of course.Now on the stories and the characters what i can say? Claire is female character which i admire! Seriously! Most girl characters are either too cowards either too b***s. I can read about her again and again. She is normal! Same goes for Isabelle. Well, actually sometimes you will hate her and sometimes you will love her. I can't get my feeling straight about her. On the boys, well i have a serious problem. I can't decide which one i like. Jase, Alec,Saimon, Magnus even Luke. Thanks miss Clare for making my life difficult. You will find boys: your best friend, your dream, the dream that you don't admit to say aloud or even the dream that you want but afraid of. Plus, i think boys will love them too. They are not annoying or too "gay". As you have already noticed i can't pick my fav character. That's ok i guess. Good to like every one in a book. Even the villain.The story goes fast and slow. The action scenes are fast and your heart pounding like crazy and when it's need to be slower or more analyzed then that's how it is. The part that really amazed me was the action scenes. I couldn't believe a woman can write such good scenes like a guy. They are at the same level like the love scenes or the normal life scenes. Wow!There is romance,sadness, sympathy, fun, secrets...You will want to beat characters, kill them, hug them. You will want to be in their position and live with them. To help them. You will want to read more. To put it simply..go buy it!;) For me it's a must.