I think this series was pretty awesome.First of all the characters are portrayed fairly simple. Their physical appearances are to my liking and... I like the couples that Cassandra Clare decides to make hook up.Jace Wayland/Lightwood/Morgenstern/Herondale; - I like his sarcasm.. It reminds of Will Herondale from TID (Clockwork Angel) Even though he's supposed to look a lot like how Alec looks... Uhh.. okay? His personality is cute, and how he just breaks down for Clary, he's amazing. I've got to say that. I also absolutely love the name Jace, all the surnames in this book are beautiful as well; E.g- Lightwood, Herondale, Fairchild, Fray. They're all so petite and nice.. love them!Clarissa Fray/Morgenstern/Fairchild/Garoway; - I like the name given, her nickname suits her well, her style and attitude I don't think suit Jace's type. I mean, don't get me wrong, I think they're perfect for each other! But it's just when I read of her looks and her personality in descriptive detail, I think Clary as a child than a sixteen... seventeen year old girl.Simon Lewis; - Simon has been shown to be a lovely friend who falls in love with his best friend (How typical) and then expresses his feelings when she is at her most vulnerable... Ugh! Simon can be really sweet, but at times really annoying. He in both issues uses sarcasm, like Jace, but it's not as funny, which I take it's not supposed to retrieve the same reaction? I'm not sure but it bugs me. His minor relationship with Clary was too awkward for comfort, I couldn't suppress my anger whilst reading City of Ashes, when they get together, I got super mad at Cassandra for even making CLary consider dating her best friend. But I guess she was emotionally detached because she couldn't be with Jace, because it was "incest" HA if only they knew! ARGH the frustration! The whole situation with Maia and Isabella is annoying the HELL out of me, Maia OBVIOUSLY should get with him, not izzy. No. That is all. But now that Maia's former partner is back in the picture he has no chance. At all.So that's my theory and criticism for the characters. I didn't like the brother and sister thing lasting for TWO whole books. I didn't like Jace thinking he was a demonn for ONE whole book. UGH THE RAGE!The idea and the plot and twists were immensely worth the anticipation I guess ; When Jace dies. When they FINALLY get together after being told they are, in fact, NOT siblings. I ran around my room whooping my ass off. Oh what a day that was, I was so bloody happy I could scream, in which, I did.So yeah, this is next to my favourite series. But I seriously can't wait for City of Lost Souls and City of Heavenly Fire! Ugh the angst!