This Review is a Warning Label and a Rave!I was going to edit this to tone down the snark factor, but it still felt right the next day, so I am keeping it.Otherwise edited for additional info/warnings about the storyline.5 stars. This book was amazing~Highly recommended for fans of Fifty as it reads like an homage to thebestof that series except it is very well written.Note to those who hate erotica, are disgusted by the Fifty series, think Fifty was a psychopath because he was possessive, controlling or sexually dominant and/or those who could not embrace the lead characters in that series because they both had "issues" and you felt that sent a bad message or they just irritated you or you found yourself badmouthing them for one reason or another:Please do not read this book.Youwill likely find all kinds of things to dislike about this bookas welland will trash it in your reviewsalso. So again, I would like to encourage younotto read it in the first place (really tempted to add the word, "duh" here). Even if this book becomes sooooo popular that you feel "compelled" to read it because of the "hype".Even then. Don't do it. Trust me.I know, I know...it's burning its way up the Amazon charts as we speak.But stay calm. Control yourself.Don't let your twitchy finger hit that one-click just yet!You know, I'm trying to help you avoid that thing you did with Fifty when you read it and HATED it- exactly the way youknewyou were going to when you read the other reviews that described, in detail, all the kinds of things you would hate about it ahead of time... before you read it... in advance. You know(?), right before you proceeded to read the book anyway then wrote a thousand word diatribe regarding all the things you disliked about it.So let me be clear: My warning is for the readers who made the decision to read the Fifty series based on 5-star reviews and popularity who moved out of their genre, taste or reading level to do that. Then they trashed it.Trashing a book because it is out of your taste range and deals with subject matter you would normally find toxic or unappealing isredonk behavior.Okay, that said, let's move on theravingportion of our program :)As I mentioned,Bared to Youisamazing, gripping, and sexy. It is clearly a nod to Fifty and distills that series (which was hugely flawed as it was written by an amateur, neophyte author) and re-works it into a polished, well-paced, engaging story with a similar, but unique storyline.The writing here is excellent.Not because it's poetic or lush or any of that, but because it is clean and efficient and didn't get in my way, ever. The story and characters are the stars of the show.They are riveting.The narrative is about two very flawed, emotionally scarred people, both victims of childhood sexual abuse and explores their process of working out the emotional and relational "issues" that arise as they participate in this highly-charged, sexual relationship with one another. The characters feel co-dependent at times and things get pretty intense and cra-cra several times.If you need your characters to be good boys and girls, to remain emotionally stable throughout the narrative and to never pose a risk to the other at any time or ever engage in unstable behavior, stay away.*spoiler-ish comments below, but only mildly so and may be important for you to know in advance*If a bit of stalker-ish behavior, obsessive behavior, grabbing, shaking or carrying off another person or one giving the other a mighty slap once is gonna make you bonkers, leave this one on the shelf.That said, the characters do not tie each other up (he may tell her to hold onto something and not let go a few times, but he never binds her) and they do not physically punish one another (well, except the mighty slap). They also know that they need therapy/intervention to get through their turmoil as a couple and individually as survivors of abuse and they get that.*end spoilers*However, once again, if there is anything beyond a repetition of words and poorly constructed sentences and inner goddesses that you did not love about the Fifty series, then stay the hell away from this one.Just sayin'.Can't wait for the next book!