Of Human Bondageis the Bildungsroman or the new-beginning novel ofW. Somerset Maughamat the time, a work that is part of a long and distinguished line of such whose origin is in Germany which that debut training appeared in the eighteenth century.Philip is an orphan and lives in the presbytery with his uncle reverend and his aunt remained childless; life is very austere. He is sent to a religious boarding school where he learns the maliciousness of his schoolfellows that attracts his clubfoot, school friendships very ephemeral, stifling conformism, prejudice and servitude that teachers demand as a tribute to their authority. A gifted and intelligent pupil, he refused, however, to pursue his studies at Oxford, which would open him the career of a pastor whom their tutors call for. It is to see the world he wants and to live his life. Thus he went to Germany in a pension in Heidelberg, an important place in his intellectual and ethical formation. He realized, astonished, that he no longer believed in God. Returning to England, he experienced his first emotions in love, and embarked on the fray in London, where he rapidly deceived, his place as an apprentice in an accounting firm, and the isolation of the suburbs. Feeling artistic disposition, it was in Paris, in spite of the reluctance of his uncle, that he went to study painting. It is in a city with a creativity and artistic attractiveness that it happens: Paris lives at the time of the innovations of the impressionists, Philip feels transported there: finally the great life, the freedom of the rapins, it thinks of being able to make its place. The encounters that he makes there complete his education, he will gain freedom of mind, but must resign himself to the evidence: he will not be a painter. He resolved to follow the paternal example and returned to London to study medicine. Then he madly falls in love with a tea-room waitress of a rather vulgar conformism who has no use for him, this complex attraction made of contempt and sensual attraction, a passion without hope whose impetuous impulses are not rewarded only by vilest ignominy, is another aspect of these enslavements of which he must make the bitter experience. Haphazard placements make him swing and compel him to endure the yoke of a stunning and uninteresting job: calico for a magazine of novelties. But a happy and healthy friendship is offered to him: a man at first jovial and pleasant commerce within his large family will bring him the comfort of the family that he hardly had and finally love.The simple joys quickly forgotten, the gradual loss of innocence to enthusiasms force too quickly cooled, bitter disappointments, the discovery of the discrepancy between the ideal and reality, the will to give a rule of life and meaning to the latter for to perceive that all is vanity, these are some of the obligatory and painful steps by which Philip must pass to arrive at his full maturity. This novel with a strong autobiographical content, proposes beautiful pages on art and painting, notably concerningLe Greco; I especially appreciated the painting he made there of the bohemian Paris, the licentious and hard life of apprentices painters.Of Human Bondageis a true classic in the noble sense of the term: beautiful, hard, exciting, we plunge in eagerly to emerge moved and somewhere transformed.