Of Human Bondageis a Bildungsroman which frequently makes you groan and mentally exclaim 'Oh, no!', only to blow you away with the power of its message and the perfection of its ending. Over the course of the 656-page book, the main character, Philip Carey, a young orphan born with a clubfoot, takes many wrong turns, mostly because he has taken it into his head that he wants to live the life of a romantic hero. He makes unwise career moves, recklessly spends money he should have saved, and gets obsessed with a woman who is so obviously awful that even he himself, at the height of his passion, calls her an 'ill-mannered slut'. But such is the depth of his obsession and extravagant generosity that he goes on treating her nicely even when she grossly abuses him, because hey, you never know -- she might realise one day that he's a much nicer fellow than the rakes with whom she likes to hang out. And so he drags himself down into a hell of masochistic misery, very nearly ruining himself in the process, only to find that happiness of a kind he had never given any serious thought is within his grasp, if only he cares to accept it and let go of the false dreams and ideals that he has cherished for years.The most autobiographical of all Somerset Maugham's novels,Of Human Bondageis a frequently maddening but always impressive account of the education of a shy, bullied young man who seeks to free himself fromthe shackles of existence without realising what exactly these shackles are. Following a strict and unhappy upbringing, Philip goes on to look for freedom, romance and adventures in the world of art, ideas and ideals, not realising how dangerous and seductive these are, and how they will lead him astray. For much of the first half of the book, Philip is a somewhat unlikeable, self-pitying snob whose bad decisions and obsessive love for an obviously horrible woman occasionally exasperate the reader. In the final third, though, he learns important lessons and meets genuine friends, and by the end of the book he has improved so much that you really find yourself rooting for him, hoping he'll recognise the goodness of the life and wife that are placed before him, and accept them. Maugham paints his journey towards awareness in exquisite detail, looking deep into Philip's soul but also sharing the outsider's perspective on him. He also does a great job drawing the large cast of secondary characters. Many of them are vain, selfish and pretentious, but that only adds to the 'Oh, no!' quality of the story. As for the book's message, which is that life has no meaning and that it's better to accept this before one drives oneself mad searching for it, this is brought home in magnificent detail, especially in the superb final third of the book, which has more depth than just about any other novel I've read. Granted, the story is a bit long, and the first half drags a bit, but it's worth sticking with it for the final chapters, which are so cathartic and revelatory that you cannot but come away impressed and converted. I know I did. Twice.I'd give the book 4.5 stars if I could, but alas...