First of all, I would like to thankWilliamfor recommending this book.And alsoMikeandHeatherfor confirming how great this book is.After reading the book,We Are Not Ourselves, and speaking how it was so character-driven, I was told howOf Human Bondagecould pull some serious emotion from the characters as well. A story that is successful at building three-dimensional characters have this way of making you feel as though you are walking along with them through life, at least until this character that you are following starts making asinine decisions. It is then that you realize that you are incapable of jumping into the pages and smacking the MC around a bit. This was my dilemma at times, but I love this about books!Of Human Bondageis basically about an orphaned boy named Philip Carey who can't seem to stay in one place for long, although he has many opportunities to flourish in some areas throughout life, he tends to choose the path of most resistance instead. At the start, Philip had no self-control and was very impulsive when it came to future decisions, money, career, and to a certain woman. At times he is mad at life for his downfalls and sometimes blames his club foot, but in the end I believe that he realizes that he is always in the predicaments that he faces based on his own decision making. Philips main concern throughout the book is to understand the meaning of life and exactly where he fits in.Throughout the book there are philosophies weaved through the pages by various characters that I found interesting. For instance when Philip was young the Headmaster of his school was trying to convince him to stay longer to get a scholarship to Oxford and to be in the running for Headmaster in the future, of course since someone wanted him to do this, he rebelled in his decision of such a thing. The Headmaster implies that his choices in life were limited due to his club foot and how he chooses to be his own victim. One quote that stood out to me in their conversation was:"As long as you accept it rebelliously it can only cause you shame. But if you looked at it as a cross that was given you to bear only because your shoulders were strong enough to bear it, a sign of God's favour, then it will be a source of happiness to you instead of misery."This seemed to ring true throughout many aspects of Philip's life, not only his club foot.You will find as you grow older that the first thing needful to make the world a tolerable place to live in is to recognize the inevitable selfishness of humanity. You demand unselfishness from others, which is a preposterous claim that they should sacrifice their desires to yours. Why should they? When you are reconciled to the fact that each is for himself in the world you will ask less from your fellows. They will not disappoint you, and you will look upon them more charitably. Men seek but one thing in life- their pleasure." ~CronshowIt's funny how a story that is character-driven can cause you to sometimes not like a character but as you grow with them you see that they are like you- learning about life and judging people by their downfalls until you are mature enough to realize that everyone in life has their own issues whether it be mental or physical. And in most cases our judgements are merely just projections of our own insecurities. I thoroughly enjoyed watching Philip grow and turn into a man with quite a bit of dignity in the end. I became very attached to Philip. I have to admit that his relationship with Mildred nearly drove me mad though.(view spoiler)[I loved it when Philip finally starts to get it and makes a huge transition in life. It was like dishing out the toy at the bottom of the cereal box:He accepted the deformity which had made life so hard for him; he knew that it had warped his character, but now he saw also that by reason of it he had acquired that power of introspection which had given him so much delight. Without it he would never have had his keen appreciation of beauty, his passion for art and literature, and his interest in the varied spectacle of life. The ridicule and the contempt which had so often been heaped upon him had turned his mind inward and called forth those flowers which he felt would never lose their fragrance. Then he saw that the normal was the rarest thing in the world. Everyone had some defect, of body or of mind..."(hide spoiler)]I also want to add that I found this book made me laugh out loud at various points and thoroughly enjoyed the escape from the seriousness of certain situations at times. One thing that stuck out to me that made me giggle was after Philip stopped believing in God and felt that he didn't want to be chained down to any religion."He was his own master at last. From old habit, unconsciously he thanked God that he no longer believed in him."I could not help but notice a lot of similarities between this book andThe Catcher in the Rye. I have a sneaking suspicion that this may not be accidental. Both Philip and Holden are in search for the meaning of life, they both attend private schools that they cannot wait to escape. They both seem to want to travel far away to escape their demons. I just found this to be interesting and I wonder if Somerset Maugham was an influence for JD Salinger.