5 Hallo Kitten StarsFirst read 2/20/2014Reread 11/19/2015*Spoilers*"Is that a stake, Bones, or are you just happy with my new dress?"-Cat"Maybe he knew. Maybe on some deep, deep level, he could sense I was evil. I wish I hadn't been born this way. I wish I hadn't been born at all."-CatMy God I love this series. I loved this book the first time I read it and I love it more now. Night Huntress series is one of my all time favorites, and after years of reading it's still one of the best series I have ever read! God but I love me some Bones and Cat! They are my favorite book couple ever!"I've wanted you from the moment we met, and if you think sitting next to me in your bra doesn't overwhelm me with desire, you're very wrong. I just don't force myself where I'm not invited."-BonesCharlie whistled "Amazing Grace" as he drove. It was all I could do not to whip my head around and snap, Are you kidding me? Couldn't he pick something more appropriate, like "Shout at the Devil" or "Don't Fear the Reaper"? Some people had no sense of the proper music for a kidnapping.-CatWhat this book is aboutCat hunts vampires. She has since she was 16. That was the day her mom told her where she came from. That her father was a vampire that date raped her mother. Having grown up with all kinds of weird abilities, Cat never fit in. Then her mom told her all the time that she came from evil, that evil lived in her, and all vampires are evil murderers. Cat went out every weekend picking up vampires. Killing every vampire she picked up so that maybe then her mom would forgive her for the way she was born. One weekend she bit off more then she could chew when she went up to a blonde vampire Bones. When she leaves with him, things don't go as planned and before she knows it she has been knocked out and chained to a cave with said vampire asking her who she works for! When she tells him her story, that she is half vamp and what her father did, he offers her a deal. Help him hunt vampires, as bait, and not only does she get to kill vampires with back up, but he will help her find and kill her father. Cat jumped on that deal. As her and Bones hunt they uncover a vampire sex, and blood slave ring. Will Cat ever let go of her vampire prejudice, and see that there are good and bad in both vampires and humans, or will she let her prejudice cost many lives maybe her own? Can Cat and Bones stop the bad vampires from killing any more young women?"I've been scared for you since I found out I was pregnant," she went on. The lights were off, but I didn't need them to see the tension in her face. "From the day you were born, you looked just like your father. Then each day after that, I watched your abnormalities grow as you did. Soon you'll leave, and I won't be there to watch over you anymore. You'll have only yourself to make sure you don't become like the monster who sired you. You can't let that happen. Finish school, get your degree. Move out of town, make some friends, it'll be good for you. Just be careful. Don't ever forget you're not like everyone else. They don't have evil in them trying to break out like you do."-Cat's mom JustinaMy Bones:Bones is oh so yummy! He is so sexy my panties melted. Damn that vampire got me hot! The things that vamps says Mmmm Damn!! He showed Cat that it's not being a vampire that makes a person evil, it's their heart. He loved Cat, all of her just for who she was, not even her mom did that. He kicked so much ass and embodied everything a vampire is suppose to be. I can't sing enough praises for Bones. He was smart, sweet, sexy, badass, brave, and caring. Why Bones Why aren't you real???? God but I wanna jump his bones. (lol)"I love that you did it to protect me, but next time, try aiming to wound, hmm? You know, maybe throw the knives at someone's head instead? Then they're incapacitated momentarily, but not reduced to a pile of rotting remains. Just food for thought."-Bones"I can't stand to see you do this to yourself." I regarded him with wariness. "Do what?" "Continue to punish yourself for your father's sins," he replied steadily. "How long are you supposed to pay for them? How many vampires do you have to kill until you and your mum are squared? You're one of the bravest people I've ever met, yet you're scared to death of your own mum. Don't you realize? It's not me you're hiding in a closet-it's yourself."-Bones"I know what you're thinking and you're wrong. This isn't goodbye, Kitten. I didn't survive over two hundred years to find you only to lose you within five months. I want you, but I'm not saying goodbye to you, because we will get through this."-BonesMy Cat:I so have a girl crush on Cat. I loved her every bit as much as Bones. Her mom treated her like it was her fault she was born out of a rape, and that she was evil. Cat never knew true love. She hated herself, but she still cared deeply for others. She tried to do right. She wanted to help and save others so they wouldn't end up like her mom. I could understand why Cat felt the way she did and her actions. She felt very real to me. Even having the life she had she was still an awesome person. She was brave, strong willed, sassy, smart, and straight badass!"I'm saying I'm a moody, insecure, narrow-minded, jealous, borderline-homicidal bitch, and I want you to promise me that you're okay with that, because it's who I am and you're what I need. I missed you every minute this week and I don't want to spend another day without you. If my mother disowns me for being with a vampire, then that's her decision, but I've made mine, and I won't apologize or back down from it."-Cat"I want you to know that despite everything, I'm so glad I met you," I choked out. "It was the luckiest day of my life. If I hadn't, I never would have known what it was like for someone to love me, all of me, even the parts I hated. I would have gone through life empty and guilt-ridden, but you showed me a whole new world, Bones. I'll never be able to thank you for all you've done for me, but I will love you every day until I die."-Cat"You are going to wash your mouth out. If you kiss me, I don't want a face full of hepatitis."-Cat"Lucifer's bouncing balls, Kitten, not again!" Uh-oh. I squirmed, instinctively also trying to block Tony's body from his view. As if that made him any less dead. "She was going to stab you," I said in my defense. "Look in her hand!" He was looking at the ground near my feet instead. "Him, too?" I nodded, sheepish. "He jumped me." Bones just stared. "You're not a woman," he said finally. "You're the Grim Reaper with red hair!"-Bones and CatThis book's pace was great. It doesn't matter how many times I read it, once I start I can't put it down. Cat and Bones together are explosively hot. The book really built up their relationship. They are one badass vampire hunting team! Their love feels real, and tangible. I couldn't help but fall in love with both of them. I fucking hate her mother. Justina treated her daughter like shit. Justina made Cat pay for her fathers sins over and over, never accepting her and loving her. Jeaniene Frost did a great job of building the paranormal world in this series. I had a great understand of the undead world and never felt lost. The plot was action packed. There was blood, guts, spit, and ass everywhere. Towards the end there is a awesome fight where Cat and Bones are just handing everyone their asses. This book had it all. It made me laugh, smile, swoon, jump up and down in excitement, and cry. There is no HEA in the end it is a to be continued. And the ending OMG ......."That's right, luv." Softly, but with unyielding resonance. "If you run from me, I'll chase you. And I'll find you."-Bones"I will never stop loving you. No one can change that. No matter what happens later, I'll still love you."-Cat