P. D. Eastman not only wrote but also illustrated Are You My Mother? It is a story of a bird who hatches while his mother is out looking for food for him, and thus, he has no idea what she looks like. So, he decides to go on a search to find her. Every creature, piece of machinery, and mode of transportation he encounters gets asked the question "Are you my mother?", illustrating the special bond between a mother and her child. Miraculously, he is returned home to his nest by a steam shovel just in time for his mother's return with lunch. It is a beloved story for millions of children around the world, and been in continuous publication since its debut in 1960. I thought it was interesting that Mr. Eastman chose to make his main character a bird, since he was a bird lover and member of the National Audubon Society.A great many people seem to think that P. D. Eastman and Theodor Geisel (Dr. Seuss) are one and the same, thinking P. D. Eastman was another pen name of Theodor Geisel. However, they are wrong. P. D. Eastman himself counted Mr. Geisel as a mentor.Mr. Eastman trained at the National Academy of Design. He was employed by Walt Disney Productions and Warner Brothers Cartoons doing production design and animation, when he enlisted in the army during WW II. He was then assigned to the Signal Corps Film Unit, which was headed by Theodor Geisel himself. P. D. Eastman created animation for training films and was a writer and storyboard artist on the Private Snafu series for the Army-Navy Screen Magazine.After the war, he worked as a writer and storyboard artist for United Productions of America (UPA). He was involved in developing high profile projects, including the cartoon character Mr. Magoo, and also adapted Theodor Geisel's children's recording "Gerald McBoing Boing" into an Academy Award-winning short film. Mr. Geisel then approached him to write for his new "Beginner Book Series" at Random House, which in part, must be where part of the confusion about his identity comes from with the "Cat In The Hat" logo on each of his books. Also, the fact that he co-authoredThe Cat In The Hat Dictionarywith Theodor Geisel, on which the authors are listed as "the cat in the hat himself and P. D. Eastman" (on the original anyway), has only added to the confusion and furthering the myth that both authors were the same man. His popularity among children and their parents cannot be denied-- Random House has sold over 30 million of his books world wide.To view Mischenko and Stacy's Alphabet Challenge for letter "A" visithttps://twogalsandabook.com/!!