I hadn't even heard of Sarah Dessen until I came across this book on my frend Mahyars read shelf. I noticed the 5 stars and as we share a liking for certain types of books thought I'd investigate this author further. It didn't take much persuading, 1st person POV, heavy on the emotion, I was definately up for it. And I wasn't disappointed! Oh no this book has to be one of my all time favourites. I'm not going to give a re-tell of the story because other reviewers have done that,but what I will do is try to tell you how this story made me feel......So here goes. Having lost a parent when I was about the same age as the heroine Macy I understand the emotions running through this story. I know how difficult it is for the remaining parent to try and be the person everyone knows and also grieve for their partner. To lose a partner is different to losing a parent. I also understand why Macy ended up with Jason (there is always a danger when we lose someone we love that the turmoil of our emotions attracts us to people who are in the long term not good for us (too safe or too wild or too contoling)) , and was so glad that he was out of the picture for most of the story. So when Macy decides to live dangerously and go to work for Wish I was overjoyed this was the next step for her, to escape the safe, and emotionally numb and sterile life that she had been living and start to find herself again.I loved all of her new friends, Delia who plays opposite to her Mom, and Kristy who takes on the role of sibling /best freind, and best of all Wes who was emotionally far older than his years and balanced the emotionally retarded character of Jason. Whilst Monica and Bert have the role of younger siblings. So the guys from Wish become a kind of surrogate family (you notice the only father figure is Pete who never really plays an active part in story so is distant like Carolines (Macys sister) hubby. I think all of these things hilight the choices and decisions Macy had to face, in this, an improtant turning point in her life. I liked that an already emotive issue was not further complicated by sex, with Macy having to choose which path to take with regard to that. The only downside for me was, what would Macy have done had Caroline not told her mother about Wes (Wes and Macy form a close friendship and Macys mom disapproves to the point where she activly prevents Macy from seeing him) and his good character, had Macys mom continued to exert her control over Macy would Macy have been strong enough to disobey and go her own way? Having been under the emotional restrictions of a controlling parent I can say from my POV probably not, she would have got back with Jason and spent the rest of her life with an emotionally retarded man ruled by his ability to control people via a mindless set of lists. So thumbs up to Caroline, who orchestrated and manipulated her mother with no-one knowing, and in doing so set the wheels in motion for everyone to start the healing process and find themselves.So, would I read anything by Sarah Dessen again? You bet!