4 stars"That was the thing. You just never knew. Forever was so many different things. It was always changing, it was what everything was really all about. It was twenty minutes, or a hundred years, or just this instant, or any instant I wished would last and last. But there was only one truth about forever that really mattered, and that was this: it was happening."This was my first Sarah Dessen book and it was just what I needed after the craziness of ACoMaF.This book is about Macy, a girl who lost her father a year and a half before and who is still trying to handle her grief in her own way. One of those ways being by making herself as perfect as she can be. Insert the perfect boyfriend, Jason.Sheldon Cooper from the Big Bang Theory is literally who I kept picturing as Jason...except that Sheldon is way more endearing than Jason...at least to me.While perfect boyfriend Jason is away for the summer at Brain Camp, Macy agrees to take over his job at the info desk at the library while he's gone. She spends her time when not at the library in her quiet house, doing SAT prep work to prepare for her senior year and helping her mom out with her buliding company, that she now runs alone.One night during an event her mother is hosting, Macy gets involved in trying to help out with the caterers, which leads to the woman who runs the catering company, Delia, offering Macy a job. She initially turns down the offer.During email exchanges with Jason, Macy complains about how she's not enjoying her co-workers attitudes at the library and closes out the email with an 'I love you'.His response is that he feels that Macy is becoming too dependent of him and is not taking her job at the library seriously, so because of these reasons, he feels they should take a break from their relationship for the summer. He wants them to meet up after he returns from camp and see if they should return to their relationship or if they should make the break permanent.Feeling lost and a little reckless, she accepts Delia's employment offer and in doing so, falls into a unique and wonderful group that accepts her immediately, despite the flaws she tries to keep hidden. Her new friends make her evaluate whether she really needs to be perfect all the time.I really enjoyed this book and zoomed through it pretty quickly. Even the secondary characters were pretty well developed and I loved seeing all the different relationships throughout the book evolve and change.I also could relate to Macy because of our shared loss of our dads. Reading about her and her family's grief was hard at times, because of how real it was.I will definitely be reading more of Dessen's novels very soon.