Walter Hartright a struggling drawing teacher, is walking at midnight back to Victorian London after visiting his widowed mother and sister, at their cottage, in the suburbs to say goodbye, a quiet trip nobody around, the road empty everything's still, not even the leaves on the trees flicker in the blackness, nothing, only his moving steps are heard, thinking about a lucrative job in a faraway county of England, that he reluctantly took, ( he has a bad feeling about) because his friend Professor Pesca, a dwarf from Italy arranged it. Shock, something touches him out of the darkness... a ghostly, sick looking woman, dressed all in white appears from the shadows, impossible, this creature cannot be real... it speaks. A story unfolds, a young woman with a secret put in an insane asylum, without being insane , a conspiracy to steal not only wealth but identity. Anne Catherick (The Woman in White), strangely resembles Laura Fairlie, one of two young ladies, Mr.Hartright has been hired by her rich, unsocial, invalid uncle Fredrick Fairlie, to teach watercolor painting, never mind that she and her half-sister Marian Halcombe, have no talent, they need something to pass the time. Laura is very pretty, her sister is very intelligent but plain, but both are devoted to each other, a lonely life at Limmeridge House, in Cumberland by the sea. Their uncle rarely sees them, quite fearful of his health, a sick hypochondriac, ( kind of funny) not a man of feelings. A sudden love between Walter and Laura, ensues, the teacher and the student, but her older wiser sister Marian, doesn't approve, Laura is engaged to Sir Percival Glyde, 25 years her senior, a gentleman of seemingly good manners and taste, a baronet, who her late father insisted she marry (men could do that then). Mr.Hartright is forced to leave the premises early, later traveling to the jungles of Central America to forget, but doesn't, by Marian ( a event that she greatly regrets soon, and Laura more so), his three month employment shortened to two, Mr.Fairlie is not happy, why the puzzled man thinks, can't people keep their promises anymore? The extremely obese, brilliant, and mysterious Count Fosco, an Italian nobleman he says, and good friend of Sir Percival, arrives with his wife, Eleanor, she is the icy aunt of Laura and sister of Uncle Frederick, without any family affections. The Count loves animals but isn't fond of people, his pets are his best friends, birds and white mice, he plays with, they adore him too. The Woman in White, sends an anonymous letter to the miserable, Miss Fairlie, the future bride , warning her that Glyde is not a good person. Anne is creeping about in the neighborhood, the Count and the Baronet are nervous , why? But the unhappy wedding day comes, between Laura and Percival, that nobody wants but Sir Percival, he has a motive, not love but wealth, she has money, he has none. Predictably the couple travel across Europe, see many fascinating things on their long honeymoon, and hate each other...Back in sweet England at the home of Sir Percival's, Blackwater Park, an appropriate name, for the estate, in need of repairs, the conspiracy goes forward, Laura and Marian are alone, to battle him and the Count and his faithful wife, Eleanor, the lurking Anne is still floating about, by the dismal lake, nearby, something has to give soon. A wonderful novel from long ago, quite a mystery to be unraveled and one of the first written, still a superb read for fans of the genre, make that great literature.