6++ Stars!!The Most awaited book of the series.Acheron has been the part of the series since the very first book i.e. Night Pleasures. He is introduced as the Head Honcho of the Dark Hunters. Actually I didn't pay much attention to him as I was engrossed with Kyrian. He appeared to be just a fun guy who helps Amanda out. That's all there is to him.But, in Talon's book, we get a glimpse from his past. And we find out that he has a brother who is hell bent on vengeance. And Acheron himself appears guilty. It's then that we realize all was not right in his world.Over the rest thirteen books we catch bits and pieces of him. Sometimes mentioned and sometimes he helps the people to find love. We find out about his powers and uniqueness. Alexion's book is when we finally get to know what Ash is. And that just intrigues us more in regards to him.Nothing, absolutely nothing could have prepared me for the full story of Acheron Parthenopaeus. The magnitude of the battle he has fought is so big that I wonder how can he stand with that much weight. He is the true measure of a hero and loving him took zero effort.Note to the readers: Please do not read this book as a standalone. You will not be able to understand and appreciate Acheron if you read this book only. Pick a couple of earlier books in the series and trust me it will be worth it.Like Apollymi says " Victory to the spider"The length of the book was actually double of any Dark-Hunter's book. For me the book felt like it had three parts.1st Part - Dairy of Rissa :This part is describes Acheron's childhood. And it is entirely told in Rissa's POV. And I thank the lord for small miracles like this. If the author had told this part in Ash's POV, then I don't think I could have survived for it.An Heir to the kingdom becomes a unwanted, loathed child only because of some people's petty jealousy and insecurities. The very people who were supposed to nourish and protect him, turn against him and push him to such a gruesome and cruel childhood that it is unfathomable.At one point I was crying so hard that I couldn't even understand why an author would subject one of her beloved character to such cruelty. Acheron Parthenopaeus, an Atlantean God and the Heir to a kingdom is reduced to a level worse than a beggar. I feel pain whenever I think about his childhood.Only Rissa Protects him. She is the only one capable of loving him. And sometimes her love is nothing but a curse for Acheron. But, if not for her Acheron couldn't have been able to understand the concept of unrecieving love. For that I'm greatful to her.2nd part - Acheron's POV :I'd like to consider this the second part. We get glimpse of Acheron's mind only when he is 18 or 19. And most of this part contains everything to be known about his relation with Artemis. For those who have read Dark-Hunter before, we know what a bitch Artemis is. But, trust me folks, you will understand the true meaning of hate after reading this.Somewhat what artemis did is worse that what everyone had done to Acheron. All the people around him had hated and shunned him. They had treated him with hate except Rissa. But, Artemis became his friend, someone to talk with, someone to feel connected with and then she stabs him in the backso hard that it leaves a permanent scar on Ash.Ash gives her so many chances that it tore my heart. He kept on loving her and protecting her until his last human breath. By god, the way she treats him, and the way it makes him feel about himself is so horrid that I have no words.3rd part - Present day Ash and Tory's POV :I always thought Ash's story would be enigmatic. It would have a strong presence. I knew I would fall more in love with him, but i never thought I would feel so very protective of him. The Man was so vulnerable and had such a soft heart that it required Tory's loving touch to breathe back life into it.I don't want to give much away, but their story is a story from destiny's lips. It has such beautiful aura to it that it moves a piece inside you and leaves you with a trail of what true love feels like. The way Tory makes Ash feel, and when Ash realizes that there is someone out there who would not only allow but be proud to be seen with him brought tears to my eyes.I was a big sobbing baby while reading this book. During the first part I cried tears of frustration and hatred to all those people who did Ash wrong and tears of pain for Ash. But, during the third part, It was tears of unbound joy, tears of happiness that Ash finally got what he truly deserves!I give this book: 6++ stars..!!!If you liked the review follow me at:"Bookshelves and Everything Else"Keep reading..!!!