A much anticipated book, Acheron starts off with a gut-wrenching punch ... and ended on a "awwww isn't that sweet", for me. (Not necessarily a bad thing, but not a great thing considering the character.)Clocking in at over 700 pages, I'm so glad Kenyon didn't skimp on his story like I hear she did with some of her latest books. (I for one have no problem with large books- it satisfies my soul.)The first part of the book is Ash's backstory. From before he was born, Acheron was a pariah. And the pain he endured because of what he would one day be, is beyond horrific. God, I wanted to rescue him in so many ways. And that is exactly why all of us gals are so gaga over him. It feeds the deepest part of who we are as women. To create, nurture and heal. (Well, who we are as HEALTHY women!) Kenyon did an excellent job of filling in the details of Acheron's pre-Dark Hunter days.The second part of the book brings him to present day and gives him his HEA. This part I had the most issues with- which I will get to later.While pregnant with Acheron, his mother Appolymi- the Atlantean Goddess of destruction- sets about to hide him from his father Archon, the God of Creation. A prophecy has come forth from The Fates, Ash's half sisters, that Archon's son would destroy the Atlantean pantheon. Archon has degreed the unborn's death and so Appolymi comes up with a scheme to have the baby taken from her womb and implanted into the womb of a human. Appolymi is promptly locked away and has no idea what her son's life is like while living with the humans. (The very life she sacrificed much to save!)When Acheron's human mother gives birth to twins, at first they are overjoyed. But then someone notices the eldest twin's swirling silver eyes and the husband knows this baby is cursed and no son of his. But the father cannot kill Acheron because his life is tied to his real son, Acheron's twin, Styxx. From that day forward he unleashes such rage and hatred on Ash, it's sickening.The only person to offer Acheron comfort is his sister Ryssa, who's journal we get much of this part of the story from. (The journal also becomes key to the second part of the novel as well.)Unfortunately, Ash suffers more from her well-meaning kindness then if she hadn't done a thing- which only gets worse years down the road. And, being a woman, she is unable to protect Acheron from her family's brutal hatred. All to soon, he is sent to live with an Uncle before she can say a word otherwise.It's here that the worst of the abuse comes to light. And the betrayal upon betrayal made me want to vomit. Not because I don't know that people actually suffer like that-even though it was almost too over the top ala the accusations leveled at Gibson for the movie The Passion of the Christ- but because I so wanted someone to RESCUE HIM for God's sake! Or for him to finally rise up and say, "ENOUGH!" (Seriously, there was an edge of victimism about him at this point thatreallydid not work for me.)When Artemis gets her hands on him you think he's gonna find some relief- she IS a Goddess after all- but, WRONG. More betrayal. More beatings. (The part of the book that detailed some of their time together didn't really interest me much either. We've seen it all in the previous novels, so I skimmed through some of it.)By the time we got up to present day I was ready to see him find a measure of peace. And the woman who shall not be named so as not to spoil it for those who have yet to read it is the one to bring it to him.The thing is... she didn'tfit.Oh, I liked her. She is intelligent, strong, kind and knows how to stand up to Acheron. (Loved how she hammers him, literally, for how he destroyed her reputation as a Atlantean authority in their first encounter.)But she needed to bemore. Perhaps she needed to have suffered as he had? Or maybe she needed a special power to link her too him? I don't know, but somethingmorehad to come from her to make me feel this union. After all, he waited over 11,000 years to settle on... HER! Yes he needed her kindness, but an intensity I've come to expect from him was, well, it was missing. Because of this, Ash and his love story just felt tepid to me.A battle ensues over Ryssa's recently discovered journals because they are a key to discovering Atlantis- something that must never be done, (according to Kenyon), because it would unleash Ash's mother and destroy the world. This brings in all the characters we've seen up til now-including the Dark Hunters who are Ash's very REAL family and the dreaded Daimons and demons led by Strykker. By the end, Ash's love is given god-like powers that severs his need for Artemis in a big way thereby tying up Acheron's story arch with a nice little bow on top... but that doesn't mean it didn't leave a dissatisfied taste in my mouth.One other thing, I have some serious issues with Ash's "Goth" look. In the beginning of the series, I was buying it. I liked the edge it gave him. But in this book, he came off as a tall, lanky, sulky kid rather than the man of power we've seen previously. I wish Kenyon would have eased up on that image.I'm not sure where this series is headed next, although we are left with some ideas, and I'm not sure about how I feel in continuing it. I suppose that has yet to be seen, but given all that, I feel Acheron's novel is worth the time and money spent on it.