This is a story about the Wemmicks, who are small wooden people carved by a woodworker named Eli. Every Wemmick is different, some have big noses, others have large eyes, some are tall, others are short, some wear hats, others wear coats. But all Wemmicks are made by the same carver and all live in the same village.And while in that village the Wemmicks wander around and stick stars or dots on one another. The stars are stuck on the Wemmicks with smooth wood and fine paint, the dots are stuck on those where the wood is rough or the paint is chipped. Stars are also awarded to the talented Wemmicks while those less talented are awarded dots.Punchinello is unfortunate that he is one of the less talented Wemmicks and things he does often go wrong, so he constantly has dots stuck on him. 'He's not a good wooden person,' the others would say and it ends up with him thinking of himself, 'I'm not a good Wemmick.'One day Punchinello meets Lucia, a Wemmick unlike the others for she has no stars and no dots on her at all. It isn't that the others do not try to give her stickers, it is simply that the stickers do not stick, be they stars or dots. Punchinello thinks, 'This is the way I want to be.' So he asks Lucia how she achieves her sticker-less state.'Every day I go to see Eli,' says Lucia. Punchinellos asks what different that makes so she tells him to go and see Eli. After thinking it over, he decides to do so. But he is overawed when he arrives at the workshop so he decides to make a discreet exit. However, he is unable to do so because as he is about to leave his name is called and he discovers, to his surprise, that the woodworker knows him. 'Of course I do,' says Eli, 'I made you.'Eli cannot help noticing that Punchinello has plenty of dots stuck on him and the latter tries to explain it by saying that he has really tried hard and cannot help it. Eli tells him that he does not have to defend himself and that he should not care what the other Wemmicks think for he, Punchinello, is very special.Punchinello queries this and Eli tells him that he is special because 'You are mine. That's why you matter to me.' Punchinello had not had anyone, especially his maker, say anything like this to him and he doesn't know what to say. So Eli tells him that Lucia has already told him about the situation and that to be like her he must not let the stickers stick to him as they will only do so if he lets them.Eli goes on to say, 'The stickers only stick if they matter to you. The more you trust my love, the less you care about their stickers.' Punchinello is once again bemused so Eli tells him that he should visit his maker every day and he will remind him how much he loves him and that will help him to disregard the stickers that the other Wemmicks attempt to put on him.Punchinello leaves contemplating, 'I think he really means it' at which point a dot fell to the ground. And so we can imagine that, in this parody of life, Punchinello visits regularly, believes in what Eli tells him and rids himself of all dots and is thereafter a match for Lucia - a Wemmick without any stickers!