OH MY GOD! This was amazing!After reading Crescendo and being left with the world's worst cliffhanger, I dreaded having to wait a year for the final book of the series. But as Friday came along and I FINALLY snagged my copy, a few interesting things happened.1) I learned that there was going to be a FOURTH BOOK! IT CONTINUES! MORE PATCH! XDDD2) I finally read the synopsis. For a whole year I did not even click on the page of Silence. No idea why.3) My eternal love for Patch grew tenfold. Nuff said.This book was fantastic! The first book will always be my favorite because of how they first met but Silence definitely surpassed my expectations. I was not crazy about Crescendo even though it was well written but this book...argh it killed me. In a really good way.I was surprised by how different Nora was. The changes in her made me sad but at the same time, they made her stronger. I mean, for god sakes she had amnesia. And I have to say, she went through so much pain and drama when really, all she wanted to do was be with Patch.Now before I start spewing I love Patch speeches I must say how much I DESPISE Hank Millar, a.k.a. Marcie's dad. After everything he did, I kept thinking 'Okay but Nora's still his daughter. It can't possibly get any worst.' Nope! Hank is a bastard and he deserved what he got in the end. He is plain and simple a monster.Now...Patch. Jev. Sex god almighty. God how I dream you were real. You are just so perfect. Yes, he does have a lot of secrets still but I fully trust him after the last book's fiasco. He just loves Nora so much and this book really proves it. Not so much in the first quarter of the book, but definitely later. I will enjoy reading his sexiness yet again.I found myself annoyed yet again with Vee. Usually, I fall in love with the main character's partner in crime but I just couldn't do it. Vee is just too much. I tried to like her in the book and at first I really did. But then all I saw was a lie. And then another lie. And then another lie. Marcie...there's just no hope for this girl. Inside, I was hoping she was going to change but it seemed almost pathetic how easily she was manipulated. I do like Nora's mom. At first she bugged me with her indifference, but then I realized how much of a victim she was in this whole messed up situation.Overall I LOVED this book. The plot was amazing, fast paced, and well written. And the romance...yum! I unfortunately read the book too fast because I was so excited to read it and now I am dreading the fact that I will have to wait another damn year for the (final?) book in the series. I'm honestly glad this isn't the end even though I feel writers do draw out series too much. But after reading Silence, I have complete faith in Fitzpatrick. I only wish the due date came faster!Rating: 5 out of 5 Stars