Pre-Reading:*Gasp* Trilogy? Is this the last book?! NOOO!! DON'T LET IT END!! Ugh and the release date is soooo far away...can't wait to read it!! I bet the cover is gonna be totally awesome, just like the previous two =D*Update*HOLYFUDGSICLE!! I was wrong. The cover isn't totally awesome. IT'S BREATHTAKINGLY EPIC! I need this book NOW. Ugh...Review:Ugh, my gosh. You don't even know how PAINFUL the wait for this book was for me. The previous book, Crescendo, was the first book I read in 2011 and ever since then I've been waiting patiently *cough*liar*cough* for Silence. I admit, when I got the book in my hands at the bookstore, I did an embarrassing dance right then and there. The old lady near me probably didn't find it all that pleasant.The ending of Crescendo left my mouth hanging open. And because of that, I expected big things happening in this book. When I opened the book up and read the synopsis on the inside, I was shocked to find that Nora's entire memory of all that has happened is gone (No, this is not a spoiler. It says on the book itself). WHAT?! Because of this, Nora had to figure out what's going on all over again. I'm not exactly sure I liked this twist in the plot, because it felt like we took one step forward in the ending of Crescendo and two steps back in Silence. Although my memory of everything that had happened in the previous novels had been refreshed, I did get confused a couple times while reading. I couldn't figure out whether the information Nora learned was old or new. There wasn't much development in the first half of the book, but I kept reading in hopes of that Becca Fitzpatrick is building up the suspense for a shocking ending. You've probably heard that she is now writing a fourth book in the series, so my expectations of how Silence ends was very high. And I have to say, it was shocking. And I ended up enjoying Silence a lot. I don't think it's as good as the previous two, but I am not disappointed. If anything, my excitement for the last book has just risen up even more.Nora, Nora, Nora. Girl, I love you, Ok? I mean, I always thought you were awesome, even if I did find you a little annoying in Crescendo. In fact, I still think you're awesome. But I really, REALLY want to give you a good smack right about now. At first I felt bad that you lost your memories so I wasn't all that harsh. But that little stunt you pulled in the end? WHATTHEHELL MAN. When a guy you trust tells you to do something in a dangerous situation, YOU LISTEN TO HIM FOR ONCE. That is all.And Patch-no, no, Jev (Yes I'm calling him Jev now XD). You do know how much I LUUURRRVE you too, right? I think the hours spent spazzing like a crazy fangirl has proved that. But did you learn NOTHING from everything that happened in Crescendo? Leaving the girl you love alone, thinking she'd be safe that way IS NOT A GOOD IDEA. But since you're so, soooo smexy, I'll let it go. But don't make the same mistake again. Please.As for Scottie the Hottie, I don't have much to say. You're cute, but I still prefer Jev.And just like that, I have to endure the pain of waiting for the next book to be released yet again. You'd think I'd be used to it now, but no. Now if you'll excuse me, I'm going to go through the book and re-read all those smexy Jev parts again *evil grin*.