HOLY. FREAKING. CRAP. !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!I just finished this book last night, and I was blown away by it. This is easily going to be the best book that I will read this year, and is going in my top 10 list of best fiction books of all time! Excellent fiction is not always easy to come by. I don't mind mediocre reads from time to time, but it is SO GREAT to be totally stunned by an indescribably excellent book every once in awhile!For one thing, this book is so well-written. The author has a beautiful way with words, and her descriptions are eloquent and lovely. There was a seamless flow to this book that was exquisite. Nothing was choppy or out of place; the rhythm, pacing, and phrases used flowed so effortlessly that I was never distracted by the writing or the language (as sometimes happens in fiction). Because of this, I was able to get completely lost in this world; and boy was I! "Spellbound" is the only proper way to describe it.Also, the characters were strong and interesting. Knowing that this is the first in what is supposed to be a trilogy, you get a good base understanding of the main and supporting characters with the full knowledge that a deeper relationship with them will come as the story continues to unfold.I have read a few reviews that say the beginning of this book is boring; I did not find it so. I was instantly mesmerized and drawn in. I knew that the author was setting the stage for all that was to come, and while it may seem slow at first, you will be very grateful as you continue in the book. Once I got into the "thick" of things, I was grateful to have waded through the beginning, as it gave me a strong foundation for all of the character developments and plot twists that arose throughout the story.MY ONLY COMPLAINT: Now I have to wait for the next book! However will I do that?!?! I tend to get very emotionally involved with books and characters that I love; I already miss spending time with these characters and I am desperate to continue living in their magical world! Dear Ms. Harkness, I am under your spell, please put me out of my misery and publish the next installment soon!!!!June 30, 2018 UPDATE: Since I first read this book and posted the above review, I have read the book 23 times. I literally NEVER get tired of it!September 24, 2018 UPDATE: Finished my 24th re-read.