First of all, I thought this book was fantastic and I CANNOT wait for the second in the series because the ending of the book, I won't give details, has you CONSTANTLY WONDERING and yearning for more.Though it doesn't beat the Harry Potter series (and nothing ever will), it sure is up there in the running with my favorites. Have I found a new series after Potter? Well, I won't get too carried away, but this book is one of my favorites.I have only two complaints about this book.My first complaint is that the beginning/mid-middle was slow, until Matthew came into play, and during select amounts of scientific detail. The more the book went on, the better it got, and the more I couldn't stop reading. I felt like I was in a rut during the middle, but that one thing happened and I kept on trucking, thankfully.The second is the fact that Diana Bishop, having a P.h.D, seemed immature and naive (during a couple parts of the book). But, I'm sure she will grow as a person throughout the next two books. These complaints are STRICTLY my opinion.I have read many reviews regarding this book and at some point they irritate me: many readers relate this book to the "Twilight Saga," however, that idea is wonky because the book deals with witches, demons and vampires -- with a history and past intertwining all of them together. Yes, there are some points in the book where the romance seems a bit "Twilight-y." However, that was not the author's intention and I'm sure I just took it that way because I had read Twilight first (the only vampire books I have ever read, and probably the only ones I'll EVER compare other vampire stories to. Sad, I KNOW!).If you've read Twilight, you may or may not compare the romance to it, but I feel that Diana and Matthew's relationship was far less awkward, more natural, and sweet. I would NOT compare the actual idea and "being" of a Vampire, because Ms. Harkness does an EXCELLENT and far better job at describing a vampire and how they function. I wish Ms. Meyer would have taken some advice from our dear old Deborah.Moving on from my soap-box, the book was fascinating. The author included so much historic detail that I, a fellow historian, also love and strive to learn about. Her explanations and enormous amounts of detail provided awesome imagery that really helped me read and cherish the book.I loved it, the characters, and the complete storyline; and until the next book, I will be hanging on by a thin thread.Thanks for reading! :)