Book Review4 of 5 stars toThe Glass Menagerie, written in 1945 byTennessee Williams. The play is told from the perspective of Tom, the son of Amanda and brother of Laura, three members of the Wingfield family living in Missouri in the 1930s. Amanda's husband, the and kids father, left years ago and has not been heard from. Both Laura and Tom are in their early twenties. Amanda wants to marry off her daughter, convincing Tom to bring home a friend from work to create a set-up. It fails, as he's already involved with another girl, and the story ends basically where it begins. It's a powerful tale about the relationships between parents and children and siblings. It's about women's rights and their place in a 1930s world. It's about fighting versus talking. It's about dating versus falling in love. It's about poverty and money. The story has a lot of mini-arcs, all about the different parts of their lives... who did what, where, when, how and why. It's a good read, especially as a play and has been produced in probably every high school across the country. What I liked about it was the harsh and raw reality of life for some people, especially young girls who needed to be married off... it's a "classic" and should be read by all... especially if you know a little bit about Tennessee Williams - and his own thoughts and actions in the world!About MeFor those new to me or my reviews... here's the scoop: I read A LOT. I write A LOT. And now I blog A LOT. First the book review goes on Goodreads, and then I send it on over to my WordPress blog athttps://thisismytruthnow.com, where you'll also find TV &amp; Film reviews, the revealing and introspective 365 Daily Challenge and lots of blogging about places I've visited all over the world. And you can find all my social media profiles to get the details on the who/what/when/where and my pictures. Leave a comment and let me know what you think. Vote in the poll and ratings. Thanks for stopping by.Note: All written content is my original creation and copyrighted to me, but the graphics and images were linked from other sites and belong to them. Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544]