LOVEDthis reread!!!!Classic King is my comfort place. Somehow, even more impactful the second time through!When Dr. Louis Creed decides to move his growing family from Chicago to rural Maine, he could never guess how much that one decision could impact their lives. Like another good 'doctor' before him, Victor Frankenstein, Louis is about to discover the hard way that...This is really such an incredible story. King's writing sucks you in and holds on until the bitter end. As with many of his tales, there is an overriding feeling of dread and an ominous atmosphere that seeps through every chapter. It gets in your mind and stays there.The first time I read this, I was in high school. It was the early-90s and this was one of the scariest books I had ever read. I am in 40 now and this is still one of the scariest books I have ever read. In 1983, when this was originally published, I can imagine that it was heralded as a ground-breaking piece of horror fiction.In addition to still loving all of the characters, I picked up on a lot of details this time around that I don't recall noticing the first time. As an alumna of the University of Maine at Orono, where Dr. Creed takes a position as head of the student health center, I really enjoyed reading the small sections of the story that took place on campus.Side Note:The incident he describes with the fraternity boys who were brought in after crashing their toboggan gave me a good chuckle. You see, my husband's fraternity was at the top of the hill facing the old steam plant. The one with the cannon replicas on it. We used to do all sorts of things on that hill including sledding, snowboarding and even 'slip-n-sliding' in the summer. Yes, injuries ensued.Another detail I picked up on this time around that I either didn't understand on the first go, or had simply forgotten, was all of the references to the legend of the 'wendigo'. When I was in high school I may have assumed this was something King made up instead of a reference to an actual mythical man-eating creature straight out of Algonquin folklore. You see, we didn't have Google at that time...And although I cringed during all scenes related to Church, he was treated so unfairly, I am so happy with this reread. I can definitely picture myself picking this up again and again for years to come.An absolute classic!