This book was very unique, not the usual YA formula. It is a tad darker than most YA faerie tales, although not nearly as dark asHolly Black's faerie series. I really enjoyed the story, lots of twists and turns and I never would have guessed the ending. But I think the most unusual thing about the whole book was the fact that the main guy was not the main girl's love interest. That is usually how it goes. If there is a main guy and a main girl, they fall in love. If they dont, its usually because its not a romance book. This certainly is a romance, but they just dont loveeach other. I dont know if that is something that will change over the course of the series, but I hope not. Although I am sure things will get complicated.And I think readers should be prepared not to fall in love with Keenan. Some will of course, there are all types, but I think most wont. He had too many flaws for my liking. He was totally unsympathetic towards Aislinn's situation, and he basically had a harem, which is extremely unattractive. But I did feel sorry for him at times too. Especially during the scene at Rath and Ruin. But I cant imagine a woman who wouldnt line up for a turn with Seth. He is just too yummy to be true. He was perfection. And all the characters were great in their own way. Seth is just the most supportive, loving, and protective boyfriend anyone could wish for. Aislinn is strong and stable, able to hold her head high and not fall apart even as her world does around her. Donia, who has suffered for decades, remains kind and has never abandoned her love. And Keenan, despite his mistakes and his attempts to manipulate Aislinn to his will, in the end is understanding and accepts Aislinn (and Seth) just the way she is, for the good of his people.But this series isnt all about Aislin and Seth, Keenan and Donia. The next book is about the king of the dark court, and book 4 is about other characters although I am not sure how they are connected. But book 3 and 5 are again about characters we met in this book, which is good. I usually dont like series that arent all about the same characters, but it doesnt seem like this one strays too much. This book has a great ending and I cannot wait to find out how things turn out for everyone. Aislinn and Keenan have a lot to figure out. Can they learn to work together? Can Keenan live with the terms they agreed on? Can Seth accept Aislinn's new life? I cannot wait to get throughInk Exchangeand on toFragile Eternityso I can find out.Warning that the prologue of this book is extremely confusing and misleading. Although I still dont know for sure where it fits into the story, it is now clear that it did not happen to Aislinn. It was most likely Donia. But there is no reason to read it before even having read Wicked Lovely. I dont like that they added it and I would suggest you skip it so that you dont get confused. The prologue really took away from my enjoyment of the first half of the book because it led me to believe a lot of things that werent even true. You can go back and read it at the end, but by then you will already know what has happened and it wont even be important anymore.