Twins: Freaky or Fun?Twelfth Night is Shakespeare's answer to that age-old question.While I was listening to this, I had no idea that Viola &amp; Sebastian were twins. As far as I knew, they were just siblings. But, apparently, they were (&lt;--if I had read the blurb, I would have known this).And, apparently, it was also easy to pass as a man 400 years ago!I guess if Gwen could do it (and still find time to write her ever-practical GOOP blog), then I could too!This is useful to know, in case I ever get that time machine in the basement working, and then decide to travel back to the 1600's to trick another woman into falling in love with me.Otherwise, not quite as useful.Anyway. So what was this one about?Warning: SpoilersBut, realistically, I probably didn't understand what actually happened in the play anyway, so everything in this review is more than likely wrong.Warning: Incorrect SpoilersOk, Viola &amp; Sebastian went on a Carnival Cruise Vacation.It ended badly.As they typically do...Viola washes up on the shore of Illyria, thinking that her dear brother is lost at sea, and decides she needs to find a man!She makes a deal with a Sea Witch(view spoiler)[disguised to look like the captain of the vessel that rescued her!(hide spoiler)], who turns her into a man, so she can infiltratePrince Eric'sDuke Orsino's household.She has 3 days to snag a kiss, or the spell will be broken!If that happens, the Sea Witch will plant her soul with all the rest of the poor bastards who made shitty impulsive deals!Kids, it's never a good idea to strike a bargain with someone who has the word WITCH prominently displayed in their name. Just sayin'.Right from the start, there are complications with Viola's plan. First off, the Duke is in love with someone else. HUGE problem. HUGE.Secondly, he wantsher(now known as Cesario) to woo his lady-loveforhim.Yeah!Can you believe that shit?Hey, Olivia. Um, Orsino wants to know if you like him, or if youlike him-like him?Unfortunately, girls don't like it when you send a representative.Grab your nuts and ask her out, idiot!But in Orsino's defense, Olivia had rebuffed his previous advances.A lot.Now, Olivia is very intelligent, because she knows Orsino can't possiblyreallylove her, due to the fact that he doesn't know her very well.And at the same time, she's incredibly unintelligent, because she not only falls in love withCesarioafter 5 minutes, but also fails to notice that theDude Looks Like A Lady, and throws herself most unwelcomely at poor Viola.Meanwhile, there is a whole 'nother story happening with Olivia's Uncle Toby &amp; his drinking buddy, Andrew (&lt;--who also likes Olivia!).These two get together with Olivia's maid (and maybe someone else?), and decide to play a trick on a self-righteous guy named Malvolio, for calling them out on being obnoxious drunks.At least it was a harmless and tasteful prank. They just made Olivia (&lt;--Malvalioalsolikes her!) think he might possibly be demon possessed, and then threw him in a dark room and tormented him for days.Back to the love triangle!Cuz here's where things getweird. Remember how Viola's brother died? Surprise, he's alive! And in Illyria! And with the captain who saved him! Naturally, he thinks his sister drowned &lt;--because it's hard to swim in a dress!So sad.But while he's out mourning, he runs into...wait for it...OLIVIA!And because her love runs so deep, she immediately mistakes him for his sister-in-drag, and corners him to profess her undying love. She must be one hot piece of ass, because a few stolen moments with her, and Sebastian is head over heels in love. Thensheproposes tohim.Whoo-hoo! Feminism!Hundreds of years later, and we're almost there, ladies!Olivia (savvy lady that she is) seems to have kept a priest on standby just for this sort of occasion, because 15 minutes later, those two are saying their vows.Don't worry, I'm sure they are going to be very happy.Let's check in on Malvolio, shall we?Well, he seemsfine!{insert more shenanigans here}Duke Orsino finds out that Olivia is in love with Cesario, and starts hauling him away to be killed. Viola/Cesario accepts her fate, because she loves Orsino so much that she would rather DIE than cause him pain.If it were me, I'd vote forpain. Sorry, Orsino.Olivia, desperate to save herman, calls in the priest to attest that they are married. Which just confuses the hell out of Viola.But not for long!Because good old Uncle Toby comes running in with a story about getting his ass kicked by Cesario, followed quickly by the Imitation Cesario (aka Sebastian).At which point, everyone realizes that there are TWO Cesarios in the house.Damn! Shit just got real!It only takes several minutes of ridiculous questions for each of the (painfully stupid) Wonder Twins to realize that their sibling isn't dead.Yourfather had a mole?*gasp*Myfather had a mole!I know what you're thinking...How does Viola keep from becoming fertilizer in the Sea Witch's garden of shriveled souls?Good question, random person!It turns out, once Orsino realizes thatA)Olivia is off the market, andB)Cesario is a girl, he immediately transfers his undying love to her.Boom! Done! Happy Endings for everyone!Including Olivia's maid (and Punk'd accomplice), Maria, who gets married to the drunken prize, Toby.Oh, and don't worry about Malvolio. They eventually let him out. I mean, yeah, he's pretty much scarred for life, and wanders away swearing to have his revenge, but I'm sure he'll get over it.It's a little known fact thatTwelfth Nightwasn't Shakespeare's first choice for the name of this play. Originally, it was going to be called,How Stupid Can YouBe?&lt;--Read it on the internet. Must be true.Ok, maybe not. Regardless, this was a fun story, and I quite enjoyed it.I listened to this one on a Playaway device, and I got to hear a full cast of characters, sound effects, and music. Definitely the way to go!