Now a strange, astonishing thing or two , happened, off the west coast of the Balkans, ( Illyria), in an undetermined age, aristocratic, identical twins, a boy and a girl, well around twenty, give or take a few years, were lost at sea, shipwrecked by a powerful storm. Presumed drowned by the other surviving sibling, both saw their relative in an untenable situation. But this being a play, the twins keep on breathing, reaching the beautiful, dry, glorious beach, with separate help from out of the blue, the ship's kind sea captain, and an infamous pirate , miracles do occur, sometimes. Nevertheless, unknown to the grieving duo ... For some reason, they changed their names, on land, Sebastian becomes , Roderigo, and his sister Viola, much more drastically, a man, Cesario, wearing men's clothes, a pretty boy she is too, (a rose by any other name would smell as sweet). She/He, starts working for the local Duke, Orsino, who loves another person of noble blood , Countess Olivia. But the lady is grieving for a recently deceased, beloved brother, and is in no mood for romance, besides the Duke doesn't appeal to her sad soul. Olivia needs a year to mourn, the lady tells the passionate, impatient Duke. And Olivia has a secret crush on his messenger, Cesario, ( Orsino is a very jealous, fierce man, who likes to duel), he also, after just a few days becomes very fond of his new, sweet servant. Now the distraught Countess, in her mansion, has her drunken uncle living with her, a big headache, Sir Toby, imbibing all night long, coming home in a boisterous condition, out of control, waking up the whole household, with his cowardly young friend, Sir Andrew. What can Olivia do, he's a relative. And Sir Andrew wants to marry the countess too, and has given money to her impecunious uncle. Another member of her entourage is her late father's jester, The Fool, also called Feste, acting silly is his job and does it very well, but The Fool is the smartest one around. Witty comments are his specialty ... Still the head of her servants, stern Malvolio, hated by the rest, rules with an iron hand, except Sir Toby, the noble family is above him. But the lackeys are restless and want revenge. More trouble for Lady Olivia, she falls in desperate love with the disguised Viola, as Cesario, who becomes very uneasy. And when Sebastian finally arrives in town, people speak to the visitor, as if they recognize him ! The twin feels quite confused, agitated, is he or these strangers mad ? Even Sir Andrew and Sir Toby, take their swords out to fight the supposedly timid "Cesario" , who is not his sister, and knows how to duel. A surprise ensues, for the not too brave pair. Another splendid, fun play , from the incomparable master William Shakespeare... enough said or written.