Oh my goodness, I think this book might have just ruined the entire urban fantasy - and possibly dystopian - genre for me. Because, where can I go from here? Please be warned right now that this review is going to be nothing less thangushing. I lovedeverythingabout this book, so much so that I mayneedto keep writing in italics.I can't believe I nearly didn't read this book. I've looked at the other rave reviews for it so many times and I kept coming back and re-reading the goodreads description, trying to talk myself into a book withangels. Because, well, I think angels are actually kinda lame. But I seriously got schooled.Let's start with the key ingredient: an addictive quality. I was utterly captivated by the story from the very beginning. It pulled me in and didn't let go until the very last page. So many books don't have this; that special something that makes it absolutelynecessarythat you read on, no matter what time it is or whether you need to get up early in the morning.The story isn't the most unique idea I've ever heard-- a future world that has been torn apart by angels. The kind that are cold, cruel and merciless, and see humans as little more than ants. Penryn is a seventeen-year-old girl who must look after both her disabled sister and her mentally ill mother who talks to "demons". In one eventful day, Penryn rescues an angel who is being attacked by five others, which results in her sister getting captured by one of the five. With only the angel - an enemy - who can help, Penryn sets out to rescue her sister.Now Penryn may actually be my new favourite heroine of all time. In every way. She kicks ass, but at the same time she is a normal teenage girl who just wants to keep her family safe. There's a hint, or perhaps I should say asuggestionof romance, but Penryn has much more important things to worry about and she knows where her priorities lie (thank you! thank you! thank you!). The dialogue between Penryn and Raffe (the angel) is fantastic. It's so witty, funny, and sometimes touching. Good grief, I love this book!The pace never slows, the excitement never runs dry, and the ending is the perfect mixture of closure and a temptation for more. The second installment simply cannot come fast enough.Blog|Facebook|Twitter|Instagram|Youtube