"When you play the game of thrones, you win or you die. There is no middle ground."3 1/2 stars. So in one weekend I finally finished the book I picked up and put down about ten years ago, and watched the final episode of the TV series I have loved for eight years. How odd that the book ended up better than I expected, and the TV show, um... didn't. Warning:I will be talking about the depiction of rape in this review.I think I was more ready to commit this time around. I'd already watched the show and become invested in the characters, so reading 900 pages about them didn't seem so unattractive. I think it's quite well-written, especially the dialogue, which is where Martin shines. It's also just entertaining for the most part. The bloody vicious backstabbing kind of entertainment that, apparently, I do like.It's also an amazing feat of world building. I was blown away by the amount of thought and detail that has gone into this-- and it's just the first book. Martin has considered details that would never have even crossed my mind - little sayings, folktales and quirks particular to the people of certain regions or certain houses - but it all serves to make a very rich and complex world that is all the more believable for it. He has created a whole new universe from scratch, one with thousands of years of history, and many different peoples and cultures. It's breathtaking, honestly.Unfortunately, it's not all good. Saying nothing of the show's finale, there are many strong and smart women in this series with fantastic story arcs, and yet the book (and show) cannot shake some of its misogyny.Tatiana covered this well. 13-year-old Dany's "romance" with her rapist is one of the lowest points.On this read ofA Game of ThronesI found the exact moment I put it down the first time around. I got further than I remembered. It was that moment during Dany and Drogo's wedding when a woman is raped. It wasn't the rape in itself. Though of course I find rape deeply disturbing, I also know that it has been a horrible but true reality in many wars and societies. Showing that it happens does not seem unrealistic. What I found truly awful about this one scene, though, was the way the woman was barely described as a person. We don't know what her name was, what she looked like, what her reaction was, or what her fate was. This woman being raped was so throwaway, with the focus of the scene being the Dothraki who were raping her and fighting over her.The only thing that kept me reading this time was knowing that there are so many amazing female characters in this series who are treated with empathy and - for the most part - respect by the author. I am just hoping that Martin finishes these bloody books so we can get a better ending than the show *fingers crossed*Oh, and I 100% agree with the show writers decision to up the ages of major characters like Robb, Jon and Dany. It seemed like a very odd decision to have 13-15 year olds leading wars and revolutions.This would be a good series if you're a fan of gory historical fiction. You know the kind with bloody battles, political upheaval, and despicable people? It's like that, but with dragons. Don't read this if you are sensitive to scenes of graphic violence, rape and/or incest.Blog|Facebook|Twitter|Instagram|Youtube