I have finally done it! I have joined in on the fun that is A Game of Thrones. It is 2018 and I managed to make it all the way here without reading a page or watching a minute of the show. Now, it is the nature of the internet to keep me from being completely in the dark on this one, but I think I did a pretty good job of avoiding hearing or seeing too much about it.Is this a great fantasy book?It really is quite good. The plot and the characters are well thought out. Comparing it to other fantasy books I have read, it is right up there or better.Yeah, but since this has been taking the world by storm it must have blown your socks off!?Um, no, not really. It was good, but not, "OMG THIS IS THE BEST THING EVER!" good.How about mainstream interest? So many people say they are not fantasy fans but they love this series.This has to be 95% because of the show. This book is SOOOOOOO fantasy, if it wasn't already popular I would never recommend it to anyone except a diehard fantasy fan. In fact, it isn't even really "fun" fantasy - it is dark with lots of politics and plotting. Some of my Goodreads friends said that historical fiction fans get a kick out of it, too, and it is loosely based on the War of the Roses.Do I want to watch the show now?Yeah, I think I will check it out.Sex and violence?I have seen some people wary of this book because of sex and violence. Internet spoilers, SNL skits, etc. sure do make it sound pretty vicious and risque. However, compared to other fantasy novels, it is pretty normal. In fact, the depiction of sex is pretty tame. Violence is maybe a little more intense, but nothing that made me feel the book was too extremely brutal. Perhaps these things get amped up in future books?EVERONE DIES!One thing that seemed to leak through the internet and my friends talking about the book was to not get too attached to a character because they will probably die. So far, only one death was kind of shocking to me. I expect the death count and the shock value to go up as the books progress.I think that covers the main points.- I liked it, but wasn't completely blown away.- I have no idea how HBO managed to get a bunch of non-fantasy fans into this.- I cannot wait to check out the next one to see what happens!