So, you see my rating, and you're probably like,ONE STAR?And my answer is yes, one star. I spent a good hour thinking about a reason,anyreason to rate it two, but I can't. This was just one books of those books that wasnotmy cup of tea. Which, by the way, is extremely disappointing, considering that I really did like the first book. *sigh*I don't like to bash books and insult the author, but I will say why I did give it such a low rating, in a hopefully non-rude way.*My Opinion. Just a reminder, in case you're thinking about ripping me apart.*My Opinion is....Nothing happened throughout this book. I literally spent 319/323 pages reading about America's ever-changing feelings for Aspen and Maxon, which, by the way, wasby farone of the most infuriating and unrealistic love triangles I have ever read about. How, please tell me, did Maxon still "love" America after how uncaring she was towards his feelings? I understand that she was still kind of confused about her supposed "feelings" for Aspen, but after the fourth or fifth time she led on, and then proceeded torejectboth boys, I would've just given up. There was no excuse for her to be angry that Maxon was seeing the other girls. He deserved to love someone who would reciprocate that emotion, even it that "someone" was Celeste. Or Kriss. Or even freakingAspen. *plot twist, Aspen and Maxon are in love* (i ship it)Besides the constant push-pull of America's emotions and how indecisive and clumsy she was with the two boys' hearts, the dialogue. Oh, the dialogue. And the dreadful CRYING. Every. Other. Page. That aside, I felt as though the characters were robots. There was no realistic motive behind any of their interactions, whether those interactions were verbally or physically. It felt like a bad sitcom. Everything was scripted (which it kind of is, in a sense), nothing felt realistic orraw, and if I had to read the work WONDERFUL one more time I was going to FLIP. When is Cass's birthday? I'll get her a thesaurus.I was honestly so close to throwing this book at the wall in frustration but as much as I despise some books I simply cannot because it's still a book and my whacked out brain believes they have feelings soTHANK YOU KURTThe number of facepalms this book and I shared was astronomical. I have a bruise on my forehead.Dear America:I have other things to say, but they'd just be negative towards the book, and I think I've said enough derogative things. But OH MY GOD I COULDN'T STAND THISA disappointment in the end. I rarely do this, but do to the aggravation this book put me through and how much chocolate I had to eat to get through this (i blame you, The Elite, for the approximately 50 pounds I gained), I won't be readingThe One. Or maybe I'll wait to see if that one is better. We'll see.If you enjoyed this book, good for you! I wish I did too. If you didn't, I feel ya. I will say something nice about this book, and that is that this series has seriously theprettiest covers ever. Too bad there isn't a separate rating for books covers. I normally hate when you see the character on the cover too, because they usually turn out looking different than how I picture them in my head, but this one is an exception.So, pretty dress? Too bad that doesn't make up for well,everything else.I'm going to go eat more chocolate and watch criminal minds to make myself feel better.*please don't kill me for writing this review* *I'm actually a nice person I swear**gives you some of my chocolate so you won't hurt me*Um hello update:170likes?! What?! How?! Who paid you guys to do this?!I'd like to thank my parents for giving me this extraordinary opportunity (even though they don't know I'm on this website *rebel*) and Kiera Cass for writing ahellishsemi-not-good book so I had the chance to complain about it. And the guy in the mall who gave me a sugar cookie taste tester, just because.*gives you ALL the chocolate*Update what the heck ah:258 FREAKING LIKES OMGI DO NOT UNDERSTAND THIS GIF BUT IT UNDERSTANDS MEUpdate:350. Likes.Update. Again.I'm starting to become slightly overwhelmed (lol "slightly", more likehorrifyingly) by the amount of likes this post has accumulated. It's scary that you all are reading my writing, and it's scary that some of you actually like it? I guess? My audience usually consists of myself/the very select number of people who take the time to actually read something I wrote. So, without getting all freaking gushy and gross, thank you for taking the time to read my review/put up with my madness. I really appreciate it.And if you didn't like my review, ha ha ha ha too bad so sad! Go complain about my juvenile writing while I bathe in my 400+ likes.UPDATEWhat the actual fudge is going on here? 682 likes? SIX HUNDRED AND EIGHTY TWO? Do you even know how big a number that is? Do you? DO YOU?To celebrate the absolutely insane amount of attention this review has received, I shall go forth and eat 682 pieces of chocolate. As one does when existing in an exciting time like this.Also:HOLY SHEEEEEEEEET!*gives you all cyber hugs and kisses**also kisses to ma haterz**you aint got nothing on me**sashays away*Update:HI I HAVE NEGLECTED THIS REVIEW AND DID NOT REALIZE THAT THIS GOT OVER 1,000 LIKES?!?!?!? ARE YOU FORREALZ?!?!?!!? YOU ALL ARE LOVELY PEOPLE AND I HOPE YOU HAVE A WONDERFUL LIFE FILLED WITH UNICORNS AND CUPCAKES AND ZAC EFRON. STAY FABULOUS. THANK YOU.