For what it's worth, I actually likedThe Selection. Sure, it suffered from a major bout of shoddy world building and desperately needed a plot beyond just the game show slash dating elements, but if I had to blurb it, I'd go with something like this: "Frivolous and silly,The Selectionis nonetheless an enjoyable timekiller with itsBachelor-like elements and inability to take itself too seriously."The Eliteon the other hand... ugh how do I even begin to describe this mess? Let's see...America: I love Maxon. No Aspen. No definitely Maxon.*Maxon does something needlessly cruel in dramatic fashion*America: I hate Maxon. *runs off to see Aspen**For unexplained reasons, she has second thoughts about Aspen*America: Aspen who? I love Maxon.*Maxon does something needlessly cruel in dramatic fashion*America: I hate Maxon. *runs off to see Aspen**For less unexplained but equally convenient reasons, she has second thoughts about leaving Maxon*America: Aspen who? I love Maxon.(At this point I'm just too irritated to continue copy/pasting)Is anyone else seeing a pattern here? Like maybe the plot is just one big, long, stretched out love triangle? A poorly done love triangle at that? One that isn't even resolved? I don't know, I didn't really mindThe Selectionbecause theBachelor-like elements (in other words, the catty contestants), while stereotypical, were somewhat amusing, but this is just messed up relationship melodrama between chapters of America replaying her emotional baggage in her head over and over and over again, and it's... unimaginably boring? Indescribably pointless? Frustratingly annoying? Where'd evil Celeste go?Plus some other (somewhat random) observations, because this is not a book that's inspiring me to write a coherent review:-What Happened to theBachelor-style Competition?:Personally, that was the only draw of the first book. Yes it was cheesy. But so what?The Selectionwas terrible as a dystopian, but at least it had that, so it wasn't a complete loss.The Eliteseems to eschew the only thing that made the first book bearable in favor of the aforementioned love triangle - why?-The World Building, Redux:Even fromThe Selection, we should know world building is not this series's strong suit. Still, while I admire Kiera Cass trying again, this time with more about the history of Ilea, some conspiracy involving the first king's diary, and stuff about the caste system and foreign diplomacy, all of it is so simple to the point that actually reading about it feels more painful than watching a Miss America contestant discuss world geography.-The Rebels of Complete Fail:I get it. Actually, I don't. There are the Northerners. There are the Southerners. It's implied they want something. But when the biggest plot development is a scrap of crucial information incompetently left in the hallway just conveniently for America to find, WTF?-Maxon &amp; Celeste:What the heck? No. Just no. If I were on the fence about the rest of the book, last straw dude, last straw.Anyway, I wasn't expecting anything more fromThe Elitethan shallow, petty drama. And somehow, it still fails at even that.