This is what the first book did:I don't know how Cass is going to stretch this into a trilogy. I honestly don't. Unless this has another beautiful cover I can't resist, I'm going to avoid this book like the plague.Update 7/23So... I finished this book. It was just as awful as the first, if not worse. It's worse in that it tries to develop a love triangle and makes a bad name for women everywhere. America decides to love whichever guy is in the room and then forget him the moment he leaves it. The book attempts to explain what happened and to contribute to the whole dystopian aspect, but the explanation is extremely weak, given through the ever-cliche diary from a really old dead guy who happens to be very important. I can't say that men are given a very good image either, though. Maxon talks about how much he loves America while consorting with other women and trying to make himself "feel good," which is literally how he justifies it. And of course, we see how he has a troubled past brought on by a violent upbringing.I didn't find any part of this book enjoyable, but I want to finish this series and find out what the hell actually happens. None of the characters have struck me as anything but fickle and one-dimensional, with the exception of Aspen. He remains constant, though in a very shallow manner. It's not about how the author has been horrible, anymore. This book is bad. Exceptionally bad. If I haven't ever questioned how the publishing industry works, I am certainly questioning it now. The writing style is stilted and sounds as if it's catering to elementary schoolers. The plot is not developed in the least, and the characters have all been built to fit some sort of mold, but they can't even seem to accomplish that. All in all, this series lacks class and cohesiveness, attempting to throw out twists that absolutely contribute nothing. Originally I started reading this to get over the pain thatSiege and Stormhad instilled in me, but now it's just created this little pit of disgust in my stomach. Bleeech.