But before you start pointing fingers, let me ask you: is what I did really so bad? So bad I deserved to die? So bad I deserved to die like that?Is what I did really so much worse than what anyone else does?Is it really so much worse than what you do?Think about it.I did think about it. I was forced to think about it for 341 pages. My answer is yes, what you did is worse than what a lot of people do, and what's worse is that at the end of your little week of revelations, I still don't believe you're actually sorry that you tormented a classmate into suicide.Lauren Oliver makes an okay attempt. Don't be a bully. Don't be a shallow, empty bitch. But she should have chosen a different medium for her message. The entire novel I was wondering "Why Sam?" What can possibly be so different between her and the other three identically empty girls of her group that SHE deserved the chance to "redeem herself" while the other four didn't. Why didn't Lauren Oliver feel the need to have the OTHER girls in the group, and let's face it, the rest of the school that bullied Juliet Sykes to ALSO learn the consequences of their actions.What's worst of all, to me, is that Sam was once on the receiving end of Lindsay's cruelty. It was not anywhere near the same extent to which Juliet was tormented, but it was still more of an understanding than others. Everytime she made someone terrified they'd evenmentionedthe name of her boyfriend, or she reminded someone that sheshouldn't even know their nameor sent Juliet a Valentines rose to remind her that she didn't have friends, or a boyfriend to send one to her. Her defence to all of this isI didn't do anything; I just followed along(pg 135) as if this somehow excuses the years of cruel behaviour to others.There's also the part on pg 136 where she blames her parents for her being stupid enough to get drunk, get into a car with her friends who are also blind drunk and in no condition to drive, and blame them for the resulting accident. What else could she possibly expect to happen? There's a reason why drunk driving is a crime and high school bodies try to so hard to educate students against such stupidity.Let's then continue the blame game and say it's all Lindsay's fault. Lindsay didn't do any of those things on her own, she had three people - Sam, Elody and Ally - to spread her rumours, help her create them, to encourage her cruelty and enforce the belief that this is just what happens, SOMEONE has to be picked on, so at the end of the day Juliet should just accept it because it is apparantly the law that someone has to. (This is actually something she says early on in the novel.)Her apology to Juliet on pg 277 is not at all sincere and heartfelt, and I believe by the end of the book that she still had a long way to go.I honestly don't understand why Lauren Oliver hasn't made the other three girls go through the same education that Sam does. After all, when Sam is dead the others will still be there, continuing everything they did before without any pause for thought. I also can't understand how she can think it's okay that Sam, knowing she will not survive the night, starts a relationship with Kent, a boy who has been in love with her for years, without consideration for how much it would affect him. This is a strong indication of how selfish Sam still is, and that I don't feel she has learnt what she was meant to, and that therefore the message she's sending is more convoluted that it could be.