2.5 stars rounded down and explained.I hate hiding reviews, but I cannot discuss what ruined this book for me without spoiling it. So, if you've read the book, clickety-click that spoiler tag. Go on. I dare ya...(view spoiler)[Let's get this out of the way right off the bat. Maggots do not eat healthy tissue. They eat dead and rotting flesh. Any medical professional knows this. This has been common knowledge since the fucking dark ages, along with using leeches to reduce swelling. Just because you think they're icky doesn't mean you can break the rules to suit your fiction. So, no, the smiling child's brain was not being eaten. Good try, though, Mr. Banks.After reading the nonsensical chapter "What Happened to Eric", I called my mother (a forty-year nurse), and then I called an old buddy from my hospital days. I asked them both to "Tell me your maggot story." Neither had to think very hard. Why? Because maggots are par for the course in the medical field. If you spend any amount of time within the walls of a care facility, you're going to come across them.I won't share their maggot stories because I think mine's better. My point is, everyone who's ever worked in the medical profession has a maggot story.Here's mine:An old wheelchair-bound homeless man was brought into the ER. He'd been sitting out in front of a CVS in Montgomery, Alabama, "harassing" customers by screaming about how he couldn't feel his legs. Well, he was in a wheelchair, so no big shocker there. When 911 was called, EMTs showed up alongside the police. When he got to Jackson Hospital, where I worked at the time, they wheeled him in and laid him out. In his report, one of the EMTs said, "there's something funny with his legs. They feel weird." Good job, dude. You get a gold star for that comment.Well, Mr. Homeless Man was wearing pressure stockings under his sweatpants, likely to help keep him warm on the streets. Lucky for me (the sarcasm drips...), I was tasked with cutting Mr. Man's compression stockings off. Wanna guess what happened? No? Don't wanna guess? Okay, I'll tell you.I started at the top and got less than an inch down before a sea of maggots boiled out over the scissors and my gloved hand and onto my shoes and the floor. They came like pus from a lanced cyst. A tide of maggots dropping in writhing clots. Disgusting, but not the worst thing I've seen.I guess that was my problem overall with this book. The shocks had no value because I've seen worse in real life. Not even the animal cruelty scenes affected me because I spent a month working for my local humane society one summer. I saw burned and tortured animals all the time. Mostly I helped take care of the aftermath of dog fights. It's more sad to me than horrifying.That being said, the book is not without merit. It is extremely quotable. I highlighted whole paragraphs, but that doesn't mean I enjoyed myself. For the most part, this book was boring as hell. Like I said above, much of the shock lost its value due to scientific inaccuracies and my own life experiences.That ending was fucking sillier than tits on a bull. Get it? Tits on a bull because it's the wrong gender??? HAHAHAHAHA! I'm so fucking funny!I can't believe this ended up being a gender-swap of Sleepaway Camp.In summation: My own history and medical knowledge ruined key scenes for me, and when I wasn't frustrated with the inaccuracies, I was bored to death. Some passages are terrifically written, but they are few and far between, making this book horribly inconsistent.Final Judgment: NO PENIS FOR YOU!(hide spoiler)]