What the hell? Even though I have sometimes enjoyed a book and not really liked the sequel, it's very rare that I would love one and absolutely hate the other. I desperately tried to finish it but I was bored, I kept getting distracted by either my family, my cats or some random fluff on the carpet... so I just skim-read it to the end and gave myself a basic idea of what the conclusion was.I truly lovedThe Maze Runner, even though quite a few people found it annoying - particularly the protagonist - and not the best written book ever. I found myself dragged into the maze with them, trying to solve the mystery - why are they there? How do they get out? Can they get out? And so on. But this second in the trilogy(?) was so disappointing. Thomas was even more annoying, we'd already lost the best character (Chuck) at the end of book one and the story just didn't grab me. Maybe because it took me a while to get what they were meant to do - cross a desert basically - and when I got it I thought "how lame".I just felt nothing for this novel, the characters, the plot. I wanted it to end and that's never good. Mostly I felt as if Dashner himself didn't know where he was going with it. WhereThe Maze Runnerwas structured and clever, this story all felt a bit random and haphazard. I found myself wishing that the author could have just rounded the first book off at the end and not bothered with a second installment - it seemed more like a money-making scheme than a contribution to the overall story. Plus, Thomas must be both the most boring and unrealistic character ever.Another thing that annoyed me in both books, but stood out more in this one because it didn't have a gripping plot to distract me from it, is that the authortellsyou everything. A good author knows how to show the way things are, if that makes sense, and it makes for much better writing. Dashner continually tells the reader what Thomas or whoever is feeling rather than letting them realise it for themselves; instead of saying something along the lines of "Thomas' eyes grew cloudy with suppressed tears", he would instead say "Thomas was really upset". And, therefore, it simply did not flow. But the worst thing for me is the constant inexplicable 'sensing' going on. Countless times in the novel Thomas "just knows" that something is dangerous or an individual can be trusted because he gets a "feeling" - and just how the hell does he do that? There is no rational explanation for it and the author doesn't seem to be developing some sixth sense storyline as of yet. It all seems a bit ridiculous to me. That's why I won't be readingThe Death Cure, it's unfortunate because I was really looking forward to this sequel.