Cover Reveal:Come to me, darling.After FinishingWARNING: If you like happy endings, you may not want to read this happy ending-bashing reviewAlmost a year has passed since June Iparis was initiated back into the Republic as one of the new Elector's Princeps-Elect and Day Wing became a part of the Republic's army.The country is on the brink of war as a new plague outbreak sweeps through the Colonies.After not speaking or seeing one another since the day they parted ways, June and Day are scheduled to attend a political banquet with the Elector and several other advisers.In order to form an alliance with Antarctica, the desperate Elector asks June to convince Day to surrender his brother to the Republic's scientific team. If they can find a cure to this new plague in Eden's blood, they can win the war before it has even started.But asking Day to give up his brother is like taking away the one thing he has left in the world, and June doesn't want to hurt him anymore than he already has been.Okay, my synopsis writing skills have seriously deteriorated since the beginning of my reading slump.So, this steaming pile of stereotypical dystopia horse shit is the third in Marie Lu's Legend trilogy.StoryThis series started out so nicely, with compelling characters, engaging plot and storyline albeit with a pretty cliche dystopian concept; plague devastating the lower class, oppressive government, bad scientists, and, of course, lots of guns.But it was good.The second book trudged along at a slower pace, following the typical 'second book curse' of being boring and even adding a shaky third person to a love triangle!And so, Champion started out alright. I loved Elector's character and honestly shipped him with June more than with Day.Adding another cliche factor, an evil male political villain who threatens male character with the 'can't guarantee your female friend's safety' spiel, and the book started to go downhill.It was also concerning that, after 115 years, we only have men as our political leaders. What the fuck's up with that? For 115 years, we still don't have any female presidents?Maybe that's the point though. Since it's a dystopian. All of our leaders are a bunch of white men. That would terrify the shit out of me, honestly.CharactersJune was a fairly badass heroine in the first book. Both in the second one and this book, she dissolved into a blushing robot for most of the story. She sort of, but not really, redeemed herself towards the end.(view spoiler)[ She still didn't manage to kill her nemesis by herself and had the audacity to feel bad about causing her death afterwards.(hide spoiler)]To be completely honest, I never liked Day as a character. Maybe a little in the first book, but there's just something about him that I find boring and unlikable. It's possible that it's because the 'poor rebel boy falls for rich elitist girl' storyline is getting old.Tess, Pascao and the other minor characters; like Day, I find these characters to be just blah.Eden, one of the redeeming characters in this story, proves himself to be smarter and more practical than his older brother.Elector;naughty thoughts, naughty thoughts, naughty thoughtsPlotGood. Decent pacing, kept you mildly interested.The Ending, aka, Why I Rated This Book 1 Star. SPOILERSLet me tell you first howIwould have ended this book if it were mine.1. Day would have died.2. June, heartbroken but pulling through, would have eventually married Anden and become a soldier with Day still in her heart.Okay, let's review; Day has spent the whole book with a brain virus and is repeatedly told he has only months to live.Then, in the final battle scene, he is shot twice, in the chest and in the hip.You'd think, with all that crap, a person would die, right? Especially a gun shot wound to the CHEST, he would die almost immediately, yeah?Well, thisisYA, after all, where splitting up the two original love interests or, god forbid, killing a main character is considered a fucking audacity. (in which John Green maniacally laughs in the distance)June, crouching by her fallen lover, decides to pray for the first time in her life, begging a higher power to save him and that she'll do anything to keep him.So, at this point, I was thinking,Because I knew he was going to live anyway. But I didn't think the reason behind it would be because June startedpraying.Let me get this out there before I go into full bitch mode;I don't hate religion. In fact, I think it's great for someone to have faith in something and for it to make them feel better.What I don't like about religion is when people try to convert you or make it the reason for being stupid or make religion seem like the best thing ever and that it cures everything. It doesn't work like that.So, this 'miracle', in which after five months of being in a coma, Day is perfectly healthy again.Because, you know, praying for something to happen immediately fixes everything,even imminent death.So, Day then wakes up from his coma, and, lo and behold, he has memory loss.Not even major memory loss, I mean, he loses his memoriesspecifically of her.Oh, so this is the 'she'd do anything to make him live' part.Might I remind everybody that this is dystopia, not fantasy. It's almost as if she made a deal with a demon that was all, "Okay, I'll save his ass but he loses his memories of you, lol sorry."THIS ISN'T SUPERNATURAL, JUNE. LIFE DOESN'T WORK LIKE THAT.Seriously.Miss Lu, I think you need to take some advice from George R. R. Martin or Doctor Who.It is okay to kill off main characters.So, ten years later, after condemning herself to a lifetime of loneliness because god forbid she loves anyone other than her first fucking boyfriend, Day miraculously remembers June and happy ending!Hey, I have nothing against happy endings. When they're unrealistic, choke religion down your throat, and are just plain fucking stupid, then I hate them.