I bought this book in Canterbury in 2009 and read its description of two people struggling across an icy wilderness on a planet locked in an ice age sitting in an armchair in the middle of Summer and felt thoroughly chilled. I had readThe Dispossessedfirst as a child and a couple of vague memories of it stayed with me until I picked up a copy and read it again. That experience prompted me to readThe Left Hand of Darkness.This is a short novel and a lot is packed into a few pages. The central idea seems to be the possibility and impossibilities of connection, between individuals, between cultures, philosophically or spirituality between being a a single individual person and at the same time being in a state of connection with everything.The flip side of connection is isolation and loneliness and both seem here to be self imposed, or self willed, it is hard for me not to see in this a retelling of Ursula's ur-fable: the relationship between her father, the early 20th century anthropologist, and Ishi from the stone-age, the last of his tribe who came down from the hills and became a living museum exhibit in Berkeley, California, until he died.The plot tells us that Genly Ai is the designated first contact of an ambassadorial team to the isolated world of Winter whose duty it is to persuade the polities of Winter to join the Ekumen, a coming together of worlds. The chapters of the book alternative between his recollections and other stories, tangential to the plot that offer the reader other perspectives either on events or the societies that Genly interacts with.This is a novel published shortly afterDuneand despite a shared interest in mysticism and ecology the two are, cough cough, universes apart. Here are no space empires, here is a future that sees something other than the triumph of the SS to the last star of the milky way, or the extermination of millions of people, instead there is the pained geometry of the intersection of two people divided by gender. Since the people of the planet of winter mostly have none, this dislocates the earth man, since as we know fromStar Trekit is man's destiny to go forth to the stars and attempt to kiss anything sufficiently female looking.LeGuin creates a powerful sense of isolation. Genly has left his family and his home planet behind. Due to the time involved in space travel he will only be able to return there as a stranger. He has been surgically altered so that he can't grow a beard and his fellow humans come to look alien and shocking to him, yet despite this chosen path of isolation he has to represent the hand of comradeship and community to the people of Winter.His counter part as the novel opens is Estraven. Estraven becomes an increasingly isolated character as the novel progresses. Firstly on account of an affair with a sibling - while most of the time sexless, the people have a sexual cycle and at a certain time of month develop desires and capacities which are otherwise dormant - and then as a political refugee.Despite, or maybe because of, their personal alienation these are the two who are committed to the idea of this wider community, the Ekumen of worlds.These are the two who travel together through the planet's Arctic circle who share a mission, an ideal but also their isolation as they are divided by the most basic notions and preconceptions including gender. Their combination of unity and alienation moved me deeply. The tension of their situation in which Genly was unable to give the most basic gesture of human contact; a hand clasp, a grip on the shoulder contrasted with the love that both felt shocked me even as I sat in my comfortable armchair, or perhaps sitting in a reasonably comfortable armchair allowed me the capacity to be shocked by an assemblage of black markings on processed tree pulp.As an aside I felt thatThe Dispossesseddealt in a more interesting way with gender because the contrast between the two societies allowed the reader to see how completely notions of gender and sexuality had been determined by the natures of the Anarchist and the Property owning societies. Here instead the very nature of a gendered division amongst people is alien. There's something clearly that I am missing given this book's reputation, maybe how fundamental gender is to us as a way of thinking and how difficult and constraining a lens it is to escape. This is something that crops up in Genly's thoughts, he is constantly thinking of the reactions of the people as male or female, or seeking to relate them to what he considers to be typical behaviours for men or women rather than being able to accept them for what they are.All of this runs the risk of making the book sound very abstract. Actually it's an adventure. Man lands on planet, can't understand the natives who appear friendly but turn hostile, runs for his life and then other normal adventure stuff happens. It's just that curling round the edges of the adventure comes all these other questions and issues. It's a sci-fi classic for a reason.(view spoiler)[narration, told in retrospect - how far is the narrator's account coloured by the end of his story, his guilt, his changing attitudes? Are the folk tales part of his narrative or do or do we need to assume another narrative layer? Consciousness of the artificiality of the nature of story telling and its relation to truth before we even start on his story.geometry of the movement of ai and estrevan.(hide spoiler)]