I oscillate between 1 star and 5 stars. Books that I did not like or books that I find so badly written that I cannot read or I let them unfinished after a few pages get usually my 1 star rating. This one DOES NOT BELONG TO THOSE. Books that I love get 5 stars. This one DOES NOT BELONG TO THOSE, actually now that I ended it, I HATE THIS BOOK. But I don't really know why.This book kept me in its charm for two weeks, I could not take a break from reading it, I wanted to see what happens next. Fowles managed to write a story, where I did not know anymore what was real and what not, what was bullshit and what not. Fowles was my Conchis, he was my literary magus.However, the whole point of the story is that there is no point. What is "reality"? What is "true" and what is "the truth"? Plus, there is no point to the whole point Fowles is making. He writes somewhere in the beginning - Novels are a waste of time, why to read the whole thing to discover some small facts - and he shows us exactly what he means with this book.Masks and labyrinths, Jorge Luis Borges would have told you the whole thing in 5 pages probably.I think that the main love story does a HUGE detriment to the book. The whole Allison story, what happens to her, or what we think it happened to her, did not add something extra to the story, just made the whole thing unworthy and unbelievable in the bad way. If there were no Allison story, the book would have been marvelous.I just think, the book grew on Fowles too big, and in the end it was too big to handle it. Anything else instead of a boring love story would have made this book spectacular.The war stories were fantastically written, only for those and this book deserves 5 stars. The whole erotic stupidity between Nicholas and the women deserves 1 star. But the whole manipulation thing is a 5 star (with an extra, because the whole manipulation took place in my head as well), the whole Allison story - 1 star. The trial - could have been a five star story if it were more elaborate (were the characters - tarot characters? only the magus unfortunately).The ending - i can live with it...So, no rating. Please read the book and rate it for yourself.