Edit: I've been wondering about these two stars. So...changing it to 1. Maas just sticks to her pattern of making characters OOC and Manon isn't enough to redeem this...thing. I can't even call it a book anymore.*if you comment please be civil. I've already had enough bad discussions about this and my patience has a limit. I've already seen enough of "why are they complaining, QoS is perfect." Everyone can have their own opinion, please respect it. If you liked the book and you want to discuss it feel free to comment, but please respect my opinion.The bad:- It seemed like book 1-3 never happened. The character development is all over the place, there's no coherence in what they do and how they act and it's like everything that happened before QoS is gone.- I can't stand Celaena/Aelin/She-who-must-not-be-named anymore. She seriously has some issues about taking responsibility for her actions. I mean, nothing is her fault, not ever. Girl, get your act together, please. She actually says that Dorian's situation is Chaol's fault, that Nehemia's death was all his fault (again??? It was her decision to make, she sacrificed herlsef for you!) and that even Endovier was his fault (how's that possible I don't know.) What the heck.Also, I kind of hate how everybody is in love with her, because not only this is all Mary-Sue-like, but it also ruined most of the characters. Let's stop and think, just a moment: she went through four different guys, in like, four books (five if you count the short stories). Yes, she knows how to kick some ass, but in this book she was bitchy, arrogant and insufferable. You don't take for granted that people should risk their lives for you. Not to mention that she spends half the book saying that she doesn't need anyone or anything because she is this powerful person now and then melts two seconds after seeing Rowan. Coherent much.- Can I say that the thing about Aelin and Celaena being two separate persons feels like a joke? At the end of HoF I had the impression that she had accepted that she was both Aelin and Celaena. mean...just because you change your name doesn't mean that you're a completely different person. If it means that...well, let me tell you, it is called "personality disorder" and there are people you can talk to about that. She wouldn't be who she is if she hadn't trained and became an assassin, so don't give me all this bullsh*t about being a completely different person, because you don't change completely by changing your freaking name. It's also quite funny that Rowan thought that Celaena was a vicious, cold creature. I mean, Celaena was shallow, vain, funny, it's Aelin that is quite a bitch...- In CoM I was a huge Chaolaena shipper. Now, to be honest, I don't think Celaena is even worth the ground Chaol walks on. *mama bear comes out, you better hide*I mean, if she had just moved on, without all this bullsh*t, I wouldn't have been this angry. Guys, I loved them together, I still remember CoM and bawl like a baby, but sometimes stuff happens and people aren't okay for each anymore right? Now, if that had happened I would have been okay with it. But I feel like Maas just made Chaol act out of character, threw Rowan in the mix and suddenly Celaena (or whatever you want to call her) decided to treat Chaol like sh*t. I'm not even that mad at the change of ship but at HOW this change happened.- I know lots of people hate Chaol. I love him. He's the most realistic, complex character there is in the series, and yes, he has flaws, and I love him for that. I remember after reading HoF seeing so many people say that Chaol was behaving like a terrible person and that he couldn't accept Celaena because he didn't love her and things like that. I, personally, understood his behaviour. He's human. She had lied to him about everything and left and he had all the rights in the world to doubt her. He's been taught to see magic as a terrible thing for all his life, it's normal that he can't accept that in a blink of an eye. In QoS his behaviour doesn't make sense and he acts out of character most of the time. He spends all the time drowning in self-pity.https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/...Why, Sarah, why ruin a character like him? Oh yeah, you had to, so it would be easy for other characters to shine. So, yes, I don't like how his storyline progressed, he didn't even had a role for most of the book. That was terrible and a horrible narrative device. In my opinion throwing away and completely destroying a character just because you fell in love with another is not only a poor job for an author but also unfair to your readers.Also, let's say this: he made mistakes, true, but the things he said? Most of them were true. No one questions Aelin, but how can he trust her when all she said was that she had to kill Dorian? How can you trust someone that cares about no one but herself and her fae puppies?- Let's talk about Rowan. I liked him and Aelin as friends. I'm not into this ship because I don't feel anything for him and Aelin as a couple, but this wasn't a problem for me. However if there's one thing I'm bitter about it is how this happened. The thing is, I don't think that it was coherent. Half of HoF was about Aelin repeating that they were friends and before people started shipping them I actually thought that their friendship was platonic. Yes, I just didn't see the chemistry and I still don't, but I think that if this had happened in book five, if their friendship had slowly turned into something more and not in like 2.5 pages I wouldn't have been this angry. All of this didn't seem coherent to me, which is the biggest problem I've had with lots of elements of this book. Not to mention that Rowan is like 300 years old and suddenly becomes like a teenager ruled by his hormones. I mean, he has never seen a nightgown. Unrealistic. Congrats, three characters already ruined!What kind of writer are you? You threw away two (three) great characters just so you could make this happen? Can we just, can we just look at the situation for a moment: hell no. You fell in love with Rowan? Fine. Just don't destroy another character because of this.Also ---&gt;it was a damn good thing Rowan had no interest in her, either, because she knew she was stupid and reckless enough to consider whether moving on in the physical sense might solve the problem of Chaol.AHAHHHAHAHAHAHA- Can we just laugh at the fact that even Aedion started fangirling about Rowan? I mean, even Chaol thinks he's handsome. My eyes, my poor eyes.- Why every single female character has to be paired up with someone? Why can't we have an indipendent badass lady who doesn't need a love story? Please. It's so freaking ridiculous. I mean, even Manon? Not to mention Nesryn, who is just a mean to give Chaol his own new love story. I want to see an indipendent badass lady that needs no man.- I felt like lots of characters lacked depth. I mean, Lysandra is funny and all but I found her character to be forced, like...too much. She seemed...fake. Same goes for Nesryn, who's there just to be Chaol's new love interest, but had much more potential.- The writing was so redundant. Aelin was always "fire breathing something", "death, bringer of sorrows and blah blah", "destroyer of all that breathes and whatever". Stop it. PLEASE STOP.I call her "Aelin devourer of the many love interests".- Aedion was totally useless in this book. He isn't the same Aedion I saw in HoF, he's just Aelin's puppy.- The king's plotline...I'm laughing. Everyone's good, let's have some tea. Why can't anyone be truly evil? Ugh.The good (a much shorter list):- I liked the bromance. Chaol and Dorian's friendship, that's pretty much what kept me from throwing the book away. Chaol was the only one who cared about saving Dorian, and refused to believe that he was truly lost.I wanted that kind of friendship for Celaena too, but everything turns into romance when she's involved. *deep breaths*Anyway, as I said, I love Chaol and Dorian's friendship. It's complex, it had to go through some though things in HoF, but it truly is a beautiful bond. It should have been there in QoS too, but Maas didn't even bother with giving them a role in this book.- I love Manon, she's amazing. She's one of my favourite characters ever, one of the few reasons I might finish this series and probably the only reason why QoS doesn't get just one star. Thank the stars for Manon and her badassery. Great character development, badassery and bloodshed. I loved Asterin and her story was truly heartbreaking. I liked Elide too, she has a quite heartbreaking past, but she's such a strong and interesting character that I couldn't help but like her. She can't fight, but that doesn't mean that she isn't strong. Kaltain was a good surprise too, the last pages are the only one I truly enjoyed.- Manon? Manon. MANON. And the precious Abraxos.Overall this gets 2 stars, just because of Manon and the female secondary characters. Manon saves the day, but it isn't enough. There are a lot of things I despise here, and I'm talking about things like being coherent and being able to write a realistic character development. In my opinion Maas made quite horrible choices as a writer. I don't care if you love Rowan, if you want him to end with Aelin, if you write it in a good, realistic way, I'll be fine with it, but you just don't destroy all the characters because you feel like it. I'm so pissed off. This just takes back everything that happened in book 1-3. Everything.Really such a poor excuse of a book you are, Queen of Shadows. I hope that I will be able to at least enjoy book five, but at this point I wouldn't be surprised if I didn't.