This is my 9th Haruki Murakami and for me, this book isnot reallydifferent from those earlier eight. The two alternating narrators (1 for each chapter up to the end of Book 2),TengoandAomamereminded me of the interspersing but parallel stories he used inHard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World(2 stars). Maybe to make this book a bit different (Wiki says he wrote this for 4 full years), he added the third narrator,Ushikawawhose role seemed to be the most interesting only because he is a lawyer-detective who can do deductive reasoning ala-Sherlock Holmes but he sure is ugly with his misshapen head so the other characters call him Bobblehead.The usual Murakami elements that I've encountered reading the earlier eight are also present here, e.g.,people disappearing all so suddenly and without a traceinSputnik Sweetheart(3 stars),the cats behaving and talking like human beingsinThe Wind-Up Bird Chronicle(4 stars),character's isolation from the worldandstrange loveless sexinKafka on the Shore(4 stars),voyeurisminAfter Dark(4 stars) and also in "Sputnik." Notice that I used to love Murakami because I was mesmerized to find these elements when I was reading these earlier works. My last Murakami book read was "Hard-boiled" and that was in September 2011. I have at least 2 other books by him in my tbr but I hesitated to read them. I thought I had too much of Murakami in just few years and his books were becoming repetitive. However, this book came out in 2010 and the drum beaters said that this was his best. I still did not buy and showed any interest (that's how much disappointed I was with "Hardboiled"). Until the1001 Books You Must Read Before You Dieeditors dropped "Kafka on the Shore," that I thought was his best work, in favor of this "1Q84" from their latest 2012 edition. Oh no, wrong choice!The other thing that I did not particularly like about this book was its repetitiveness. The plot is, to be frank but of course in my opinion, thin. In fact, "Hardboiled" has a more intriguing premise and more engaging prose like a good-till-its-last-page kind of thing. It seemed to me that Murakami just wanted to join the ranks of Thomas Pynchon, James Joyce, David Foster Wallace, Roberto Bolano, Vikham Seth and Leo Tolstoy who are all effective in writing short as well as long novels without tiring or boring their readers. So, Murakami spent a lot of time unnecessarily describing the milieus as well as repeating the thoughts of his characters. At times, he was aware of this because he used words like "parroting" and "at the risk of repeating myself" but oh yes, the characters repeat themselves. Murakami repeats himself as if the readers have low reading comprehension that should be reminded in each chapter lest they would be lost because the novel is very long. An example of this is in page 1148:"Will you tell me you believe it from the bottom of your heart?" (said Aomame)."I believe it from the bottom of my heart," Tengo replied.This is not the best example because there were some that after a similar exchange of sentences by his two characters, Murakami would still paraphrase, sometimes using the same words, what the two talked about. Can't Tengo just say "Yes"? I don't think that would be a lot different. It reminded me of being in grade school when grammar teachers would always require us to answer in complete sentences.But I am not giving this a lone star. This book is hard for me to dislike. First, Murakami is my sentimental favorite author. His books were introduced to me by a dear friend and his "Kafka on the Shore" (my first) accompanied me during the time that I was recuperating from my knee operation in March 2010. Second, the book is easy to read. Even if you are in a crowded noisy restaurant, even killing time inside a gym lounge or even in the office during lunch breaks, you can read and understand the book. I guess the book is intended for young people because of the supernatural elements and its sci-fi, easy, relax mood. Lastly, the book is popular and no one looks at you as if you are a demented geek or old-fashioned college professor if anyone sees you reading this book. The cover is hip, the title is intriguing and Murakami is well-known already and his works have a cult-like group of followers in the internet and he has a legion of fans all over the world.Bottom line, I am glad I was able to finish reading this book. However, I will never ever read this again.