Due to the large number of negative comments I've received, including death wishes, I've added the following request:Please do not take this review (or yourself) too seriously when reading it.I became what I am today at the age of twenty-nine, on a frigid overcast day in the winter of 2008.What I am about to tell you about what I became is going to be very shocking. It is going to manipulate your emotions. It may include some random words in my native language for no reason whatsoever. It will teach you unnecessary things about my culture. It will not be smarter than a fifth grader. And it will include as many cliches and as much foreshadowing as is humanly possible.You are going to be shocked. I, for one, never saw it coming. So I doubt you will. Get ready. Aren't you so ready to be shocked? You're never going to see this coming.What comes next is the big revelation, so get ready!Wait, I need to ask you something first. Did you know that the Irish like potatoes? Yeah, we really enjoy them. And alcohol too. It's pretty great.Erin Go Bragh!This means Ireland Forever! Unfortunately, you will be very sad to know that my father just died due to an Irish car bomb. Well, about 15 of them to be exact. All on an empty stomach! It makes me sad and you should feel sad too, kind reader.Ok, on to the big reveal. Here it is:On that frigid overcast day, which happened to be the day that I decided to quit readingThe Kite Runner, I became a book snob.BecauseThe Kite Runneris adored by most people who read it, I am forced to conclude that most people need to read more. A whole lot more. You should be embarrassed if you like this book. Seriously. The moment I became a book snob (shortly after "The Scene"), I became so embarrassed to be seen reading it that I accused the guy sitting next to me on the subway of putting the book on my lap while I wasn't paying attention. "How dare you, sir! Have you no decency?" I exclaimed excitedly in my native language. Then I noticed a monkey on the platform waiting to board a train. I quickly hopped off my train, ran to him, handed him the book, and said "Top O' the Mornin' to ya!Enjoy!"Later that day, I saw that monkey flying a kite in front of the Washington Monument. I noticed that the glass string wasn't making his hands bloody. Do you know why? He was wearing gloves.---------------------------------------------------------------Please note that I have absolutely no appreciation for life and reality.**Bart Bondeson, who claims to be "a better person for having read this book,"suggestedthat I make this clarification to my review. Thanks for the suggestion, Bart! Hopefully that clears things up for those who were wondering.