One French word explains this book: "une deception". "Deception" means disappointment, but in this case, the word also applies to its "faux amis" (false friends) translation: deception.After all the fuss I've read about this book, I expected something nearly transcendent. But instead "The Elegance of the Hedgehog" is predictable, overly politically correct and quite pretentious. Ironically, the main characters all disdain the snobbism of the rich, yet at the same practice snobbism themselves. Somehow knowledge of philosophy, arty Japanese movies and obscure outdated phrenology texts is better than the dinner parties, shopping sprees and shrink sessions that the Parisian elite enjoy.The Elegance of the Hedgehog follows the missives of two women from two very different backgrounds: A frumpy high school drop out Parisian concierge who also happens to be more well read than the entire Academie Francaise (and can quote the rapper Eminen to boot!). She's the Hedgehog of the book with one goal in mind: to keep her intelligence hidden from her one friend (a Portuguese housekeeper with a heart of gold, wouldn't you know) and from the rich tenants in the Parisian building where she lives and works. Paloma is the other main character and enjoys the life of privilege. She lives with her family in a rather large apartment in the building, one of the many benefits of being the daughter of a former high-up French governmental official. Paloma is twelve and has angst - she plans on committing suicide and setting the building on fire. The Hedgehog (Renee)and Paloma go about their business, with loftly thoughts and deep insights. Mainly, they just think they are better than anyone in the building.What really comes across is a pretentious spewing of everything that the author knows about: tea ceremony, philosophy, Freudian analysis, baking, Japanese movies and culture, classical music (with a twinge of rap for good measure), Japanese toilets, Art (with a big capital "A"), pastries, cats and on and on. Ugh. If I wanted all of this, I would have become a reclusive concierge in Paris myself.Renee's and Paloma's worlds are turned upside down by the arrival of an older, rich (and perfect and egalitarian) Japanese gentleman who sees them for whom they really are and brings them out of their shells. The rest is as predictable as a Harlequin Romance, complete with the acceptance of traumatic childhood remembrances that free the soul to love again. But remember, this being a French book, the ending cannot be all that "joyeause". Yet, even the tragic last few chapters are cloyingly sentimental. Enough! Let me eat my expensive madeleines in peace. They are worth it. This book isn't.