I've read a lot of Stephen King. I was a big fan when I was in my teenage years. The Stand and The Long Walk are among his best. Under The Dome is sadly one of his worst. It was a book which started as an idea for a project called "The Cannibals" in 1976. He never finished it. I was kind of disappointed, there are no cannibals in Under The Dome.The book is colossal at more than 1000 pages. This isn't anything new for King fans as many of his books are more than 700 pages. It was over 1000 pages and was one of King's better books (although the ending was disappointing).Under The Dome should not have been 1000 pages. It should have been maybe 300 pages tops. The story meanders and meanders and nothing really happens of interest.The characters are completely dull, lifeless, one dimensional. They're created with a stroke of the pen and quickly start dying off. I never cared for them so it really wasn't a big deal when they died.The plot is another King rehash. A combination of much of his weaker work with a dash of The Stand here and there. It's part Tommyknockers (his worst book IMO), partly Dreamcatcher (also awful) and partly Needful Things (mediocre at best).The book is also an anti-bush polemic. I'm not a Bush fan but this is a little late as far as anti-Bush messages go and very thinly veiled. The main bad guys in the book are two town politicians based on George W Bush (dumb, incompetent) and Dick Cheney (power hungry, ruthless, corrupt). It's so obvious and cloying that I didn't hate these characters or feel sympathy for them. Instead of creating real characters King has just taken Bush and Cheney and inserted them in his story.Perhaps if King had any tact for writing political allegories this would have been a better novel. Under the Dome is partly based on Lord of the Flies which King frequently mentions in his work. 'Flies' was a much better novel than this, suspenseful and gripping and no more than 200 pages. Under The Dome is 5 times as long and 5 times as bad.I felt like I've seen this situations and characters before. King has just changed a few minor details. The dome itself is just a setup for another town which drives itself crazy. It's Needful Things, Cell, The Stand, Dreamcatcher and The Tommyknockers all over again. A few elements have been changed but the plot is basically the same.King can be a good writer at times but he can also be a god awful writer. In this case he's god awful. This wasn't particularly original. The idea is largely ripped off from an old Twilight Zone clone. The resolution is also utterly cheesy and practically an afterthought. It's Deus Ex Machina at its worst. Of course this is a tactic frequently employed by King when he doesn't know how to write a conclusion.