Absurdist plays are one act for a reason.Seriously, I know there were points to make about the repetitive ridiculousness of bureaucracy/war/capitalism/life, but over 450 pages of variations on the Catch-22 joke?I did find myself more affected than I would have guessed by some of the deaths, and some of the lines were clearly awesome.Underlined bits:In a world in which success was the only virtue, he had resigned himself to failure.(277, about the Chaplain)Because he needed a friend so desperately, he never found one. (95, about Major Major)Since he had nothing better to do well in, he did well in school. (95, about same)Clevinger was one of those people with lots of intelligence and no brains, and everyone knew it except those who soon found it out. (77)Kraft was a skinny, harmless kid from Pennsylvania who wanted only to be liked, and was destined to be disappointed in even so humble and degrading an ambition. (64)it was neither possible nor necessary to educate people who never questioned anything(44)In an airplane there was absolutely no place in the world to go except to another part of the airplane. (42)Actually, there were many officer's clubs that Yossarian had not helped build, but he was proudest of the one on Pianosa. It was a sturdy and complex monument to his powers of determination. Yossarian never went there to help until it was finished; then he went there often, so pleased was he with the large, fine, rambling shingled building. It was truly a splendid structure, and Yossarian throbbed with a mighty sense of accomplishment each time he gazed at it and reflected that none of the work that had gone into it was his. (27)There were terrifying, sudden moments when objects, concepts and even people that the chaplain had lived with almost all his life inexplicably took on an unfamiliar and irregular aspect that he had never seen before and which made them seem totally strange:jamais vu. (214)"You put so much stock inwinningwars," the grubby, iniquitous old man scoffed. "The real trick lies inlosingwars, in knowing which wars can belost. Italy has been losing wars for centuries, and just see how splendidly we've done nonetheless."(255)Lots of repetitiveness, even in that short list.Reminds me ofConfederacy of Dunces. I feel I was bored and frustrated in a similar way, but probably won't reread either to search for actual parallels beyond obvious "supposedly hilarious classics I outright hated" classification.