'I had once thought that there was power in a drawing, that the lines and shapes came through my hand through the Master of the Universe, that a drawing could better the world...'I read this book first almost ten years ago. It shook my world. I reread it for the first time since then, and was ecstatic to see it was every bit, no even more poignant, as I remembered.One thing that had not aged well for me: the concept of 'whoring' or being a 'whore' as the ultimate disgrace as an artist and a person true to themselves. I understand that Potok, as an observant Jew, was simply writing from his own moral perspective, still---seeing as the entire book is based upon the concept of an individual trying to free themselves from social and moral binds that are to a too-large extent, arbitrarily dividing, it seemed more than a little ironic that consensual sex/money exchange was made the ABSOLUTE symbol of losing yourself. There are artists who have the financial freedom to depict whatever they want and there are 'whores' who have the financial freedom to see only clients whose company they honestly enjoy. ...and then there is everyone else, who must make a working wage and yes, sometimes that means doing things you do not like, with individuals you do not care for. Artists, softwear engineers, and sex workers all alike, 'sell themselves' (if that means doing something you don't organically believe in.)ANYWAY. Moving on.This remains an incredibly powerful moving story about staying true to yourself, and make no mistake, it is not romanticized. In the struggle to paint how he wants and what he wants, to become 'good' by a metric outside of what is allowed within his own religious and cultural boundaries, Asher Lev will lose everything. his mother, his father, his community, his peace of mind. His health. His soul.Or does he keep his soul, and lose everything else, precisely because to 'sell out' would mean to lose his soul? The beauty of this book is that it doesn't sugar coat being true to yourself. It shows you that more often than not, being true to yourself means not even being sure if you HAVE retained your soul, because at some point, the point of your struggle becomes lost. You have 'yourself' and 'what you stand for' but you have lost everything else.And you can no longer determine if that was a worthwhile exchange, but it completed your journey, the Obsession, to be You.