Seriously... I have to read this book for class. I'm on page 50 and I've already had more than I can take. The symbolism is over the top and heavy-handed to the point that I can't decide whether I'm being shouted at for no reason or insulted as a dull creature incapable of understanding such things unless it is stated outright with excruciating detail. Its insistence on being so obvious with everything makes it sound pretentious, preachy, and annoying. Additionally, the overemphasis the author places on race and its inextricability from the conventional concept of beauty makes it sound like she's ranting. This would be fine in a blog or on Facebook - in the context of a novel it's just obnoxious and completely closes the ear to what the author intends to communicate. While the base idea of the themes is good, that idea is lost in how abused and overused they are within the novel. Again, although I'm only on page 50 I feel like I'm being perpetually beaten in the head with a frying pan. Needless to say, it's really not a pleasant feeling, and I'm frightened that I'm reading this in my Contemporary Literature course. Goodness help us if literature like this and The Kite Runner endures to earn that title in truth.I can't take it anymore!Please tell me there's someone who agrees. xDEdit: Yo, guys. I did read the whole thing (much to my own dispair. It just didn't drastically change my opinion.I would like to add, though, that again, although I thought the execution could have been better, this book DID open my eyes to the self image issues black girls have about not being white. I didn't know that was a thing they'd struggle with. To me, all shades of black are beautiful in their own ways. I love everything she's trying to get across, and her heart is more than in the right place. And I certainly understand more knowing it was her first novel, which kind of explains a lot. I would definitely be willing to read her more recent books - I'm sure she will have improved a lot since then.