Boring. Predictable. Vague. Sooo bad and Sooo boring!The only thing that I liked was the connection with the first book. However, even though we have the same world, we have such different characters!We have a long and dark introduction. A little boy with a lot of power and little responsibilities showing how cruel he can be in his world. I thought it would be one of those books that play with your mind but it was basically just the introduction. Meh.Then we get to the main heroine, Fire. She has all this power and she refuses to use it because she is good and yadayada. Which is okay when you are not in life-death situations. So she has a bunch of guards protecting her because, oh, she is such a fragile woman.So, you are expecting me to say that she finds her inner powerful self and I went all "you go girl!"? Well, not here. The story was basically about her boring life. She spends more than half of the book having periods and it would be okay when we got somewhere with it, but it never added anything to the plot. She was annoying and weak. Everybody loved or hated her because of her looks and she had a friend with benefit that was more like a rabbit, leaving kids everywhere. But wait, she liked a guy that WAS NEVER THERE!!! The love interest here was so plain and uninteresting.(view spoiler)[ Oh wait, he had a daughter there to be fire's company. THAT made him interesting - to her. I think that she wasn't really in love with him to begin with. She just wanted a kid without having to be hers and used him. It just makes more sense for me.(hide spoiler)]One day he goes out because the kingdom is at war and when he comes back she "discovers" that she likes him. But when he asks her if she wants to go home with him, she just wants to stay in her room awau from him... What a lovely couple.There were some tentative plot twists which I found just so predictable. Some were just there to make Fire have emotions and more letters on the page. It wasn't so irrelevant and I really think it could be better developed.The writing style was awesome but the story was just lacking too much for my taste. A lot described people and places that just passed and never appeared again. It felt so unnecessary. Most of the pages were irrelevant to the story and were just there to make the book bigger. I was always waiting for something to happen.The other thing that annoyed me was the marriage factor and how relationships are treated. Not only in this book but in the first one too. Everybody slept with everybody. They all cheated. They were all bastards. I don't remember one real happy couple who didn't slept with somebody else! There's no background to make the characters believe that marriage is a bad thing but it's treated as something really bad that I just felt like the author wanted to push her beliefs over me.To sum up, it was too boring. I just got to the end because I wanted to know if something interesting was finally going to happen. Well, it didn't.