It took me just a few days to read this, but already I've forgotten most of it. I decided not to review it last night when I finished it because I wanted to think on it and give it a fair shot, but now I feel like it's all just a fuzzy memory. Not a tell-tale sign of a new favorite of mine.The premise certainly isn't original, though I'm not sure that particularly matters. The self-absorbed hotty narrator has spent the majority of his adult life drinking, drugging, and being a porn star, but very early on in the story almost dies in a traumatic and disfiguring accident... a traumatic and disfiguring accident that is repeated over and over again. Each time it was repeated I found I cared less and less. Probably not intentional, so therefore not a good start.While in the burn ward he meets Marianne Engel. Her name is another fact that is repeated ad nauseum. Rarely is she referred to simply as "Marianne"; it is constantly written as "Marianne Engel", as if there were more than one Marianne in the story. (Hint: There was only the one.) The narrator spends the majority of the book considering whether or not Marianne Engel is schizophrenic or just suffering from some other psychological issue - another point that is driven home to the point of almost causing me not to pick the book up again. In any case, I figured there would be a hook somewhere so I kept at it. Marianne Engel tries to convince the narrator that they're lovers from past lives, so approximately every other chapter is a "flashback" to another century. Some authors can manage the time-jumping with grace, but for whatever reason it never quite worked in The Gargoyle. Instead what happened for me was at the end of each chapter I found I wanted to put the book down and not pick it up again.In any case Marianne Engel tells these stories to the narrator in order to keep him alive since the only reason he fought for his survival in the hospital was so he could kill himself once he got out. Oy, okay,whatever. All I really could focus on was just how horrible a doggy-parent Marianne Engel was to her animal. The fact that I was that focused on what is probably such a minor part of the story only illustrates the point I'm trying to make - the story itself did not hold my interest.This isn't ahorriblestory, but certainly not original or interesting enough to keep me hooked. I realize this review will likely make me insanely unpopular, though my reviews have never been for the sake of popularity anyway. I skimmed through a lot of the GR reviews and am baffled at the overwhelming amount of 5-star reviews and I really wonder what book they were reading. As a debut novel I do believe Davidson did an okay job. Was this job at all worth the hype surrounding this book? Absolutely not. But then that seems to be the case in so many situations these days - the hype is always worth more than the actual story, an issue that has made me wary of a lot of contemporary fiction.It probably didn't help that I read this after seeing so many previews for that freaking movie,Beastly, a modern take onBeauty and the Beast- a story not far from my mind while reading The Gargoyle - the whole heart-of-gold, love-will-keep-us-alive, climb-every-mountain thing. Maybe once upon a time it would have worked for me. But even with the inclusion of all the discussion of and comparisons toThe Infernoin this book, I couldn't shake the mental Beauty and the Beast concept I already had in my head. And you know if references to Dante don't win me over, there is something seriously not right.