Alright, let's get this over with.******Spoilers ahead******Soooooooo, we catch up with Tally who we know has been carted away back to New Pretty Town after Special Circumstances raids The Smoke - again. Tally wakes up and is now......wait for it......wait for it......A SPECIAL!!! I know!!! I was in utter shock too!!!sarcasmTally is an extra speshul Special with the Special Circumstances agency.Try saying that three times fast.She has a super dooper new skeleton, super strong muscular muskles, and triangular super speshul teeth. Her mind is nowagainunder some sort of mind control, of the Special sort. She is a mean lean fighting machine, and still a total bitch. Tally is part of a speshul Special group called The Cutters. Guess what they do? Cut themselves to sharpen their minds. Yeh, I didn't get it either.Anywhooo, poor Zane has some brain damage and wasn't able to become a Special like Tally. Tally does not approve. Tally wants what Tally wants, as usual, and she will do anything to get it.In the meantime, The Smokies have become more daring. Spreading their brain cure, infiltrating New Pretty Town, and generally irking the Specials.Zane is in contact with The Smokies and helping them. Shay and Tally decide to use him to help raid The Smoke for the gazillionth time. Tally of course justifies this betrayal at every turn.To make another long boring story short, Tally follows Zane in the wild as he makes his way to The Smoke's new location. They have one brief interaction where Tally actually feels like throwing up after kissing him. WHAT?? I'm supposed to feel something for this girl? To her, he is weak and undesirable now. What. A. BITCH. Her brainwashing does not give her an excuse for being an absolute horrendous person for 3 fucking books. Characters should grow, not be stagnant.They find the Smokies new hideout which is now in a huge city the same size as New Pretty Town. Some shit happens, Zane dies. Tally goes off the deep end. She runs off to destroy Special Circumstances on her own.At this point the last fuck I gave flew away.Want to know the bestest part? Dear Tally brings Special Circumstances to it's knees, everyone gets the cure and all seems to be going peachy for the world. This isn't enough for Tally. She figures that one day humans will fuck up again.Sheis going to make sure this doesn't happen. Um, ooooookay there, Super Tally."Yeah." Tally nodded. "Its kind of this plan... to save the world."Of course, David shows up like the good little doormat puppy that he is and decides to help her. They live out in the wilds happily ever after. I am silently hoping she got eaten by a giant python. Hey, a girl can dream.1 Ninja-Bunneh-Thanking-Fuck-It's-Over