This is actually a very difficult book for me to rate. Certain aspects of it were very good. Others, I didn't care for at all. I suppose I can say that as a whole I liked it "okay". Somewhere between a 2 and a 3, but I'm going to round down due to the seriousness of my dislikes.What worked for me:- Attention to detail (more on that below, however). It was very easy for me to visualize scenes and actions.- In general, the premise for the novel was interesting. And some parts of it were very exciting to read with lots of good drama.- Claire was in some ways a decently strong protagonist. I liked her smart mouth and I liked the way she pushed back against her male counterparts. For the most part, I liked her.- I like Jamie quite a bit (more than that below, however). I found him to be a very likable character and well fleshed out. He was a nice blend of good traits and bad, and he had a lot of depth to him. I'll say that I didn't find him quite as swoony as some do, but I did like him a lot. I loved the way he loved Claire. I bought it - the chemistry and his care for her. And there were more than a few scenes where their relationship was very touching.- I liked the tie-ins with history. The author seemed to have put quite a bit of research into this. It felt fairly authentic, at least as far as books such as this go.- Some of the secondaries were really well done.- As a whole, the writing was better than average.What didn't work for me:- First, this book needed a serious round of editing. I like long books and as I mentioned above, I liked the author's attention to detail. But this was long out of mostly author self indulgence. There were several scenes that just went on and on and on, going into far more detail than necessary, to the point of major plot distraction. And then other scenes really added nothing at all. Despite what the length of this novel would suggest, the plot was pretty simple. It was just repetitive and long-winded. I'd say a solid 1/3 of it could have been whacked and the story wouldn't have suffered at all.- Secondly, the abundence of sexual violence - rape, assault, etc - was a big turn off for me. Or really, not the existance of it in the book, but how the author chose to utilize it over and over as plot devices. I do get that rape and such was common historically. I'm not objecting to the author using it once or even twice. That's realistic.But EVERY plot point in this book was driven by it. Over and over, either against Claire (she was *almost* raped something like 5-6+ times... and was saved each time) or Jamie (who was stalked all over bloody Scotland by a madman sadistic rapist and who was ultimately violently brutalized to what... again, save Claire.)More than anything, I just think it was... lazy and probably a little careless to repeatedly use it as the driver for the plot.- I wasn't keen on the "beating scene". Again, I get that it's historically believable and I don't so much object to the beating itself so much as the fact that Jamie enjoyed it. That seemed OOC to me based on everything else he'd shown, and frankly, that took him down a few notches as a character for me.Really, like the amount of sexual violence, the level of general person on person violence/abuse was a little eh for me, too. Yes, people beat each other a lot back in those days, sometimes for very good reasons (i.e. parental discipline). But the author spent A LOT of time discussing it and focusing on it, throughout the entire novel. It wasn't clear to me what exactly she was trying to accomplish in doing so either. In other words, exactly what theme she was going for? Half the time it felt like she was trying to justify abuse by saying, "Oh, it's just the times."ETA: Also, I forgot to mention this when I originally posted this review, but I got rather tired of the continual shooting/raping/beating the hell out of Jamie. More than once, I was like, "Okay, that's enough. We get that he's tough and noble and has character. You can stop torturing him now. Move on to someone else." Like other things, I found it overly repetitive.- I think Randall was overdone as a villain. He came off as almost a caricature.- Lastly, and while it probably matters not to most readers (especially those reading for just the romance aspects), but it does matter to me, her time travel logic needed some major help. It's difficult to create a believable time traveling story in the first place, but the author didn't spend any real time making her version seem feasible.If you really think about where she was going with Geilie's date of time travel (1967) versus Claire's (1945) and the fact that Geilie was already in the past when Claire arrived, it leads you to the conclusion that the author's version of time travel is based on some notion that all time exists in the same moment rather than in a line or wave or various other versions some sci fi authors use. And that paradox can take you down a very deep and very confusing rabbit hole. Really, if she'd have left out the bit about Geilie coming from the future, it would have worked better. That she did have it there just made things more complicated than they needed to be.So... in conclusion, I suppose, as I said above, I liked it "okay". Some parts were quite enjoyable. Others made me want to throw my kindle (I literally did once). I'm definitely not in love with it like I know many are. But it was still an overall entertaining read.Also, as an aside, after having read some long, detailed summaries of the subsequent novels in this series, I've decided I won't be continuing. The later novels' plots are far too convoluted and really just not that interesting for me. I think I'll just pretend that it all ends with this book and be happy enough.