Exodusis best compared toExodus. A historical account very much in the vein of its namesake. By which I mean it is over-inclusive, over-long, and makes no attempt at balance. This zeal in itself is not a bad thing, but we mustn't be tempted to treat it as an accurate historical account. Most concerning to me is that this 'history' is littered with fictional characters who become hard to tease out from the truth.The book gets off to a rather good start actually. We have a sense of adventure and romance. The action and international intrigue is initially focused on characters who are believable and have a reasonable degree of backstory, even if they're not particularly interesting. There's a nice pace, and Uris is a decent writer in a Dan Brown sort of way. If this story hadn't made a raid on the history books, I think I'd have rather enjoyed it.Unfortunately the final 2/3 of the tale rather leaves me cold. While Uris' prose is passable, 600 pages is stretching it. Especially once he's laid his cards out, one starts to get an instinctive feel for what he's going to say next. I was guessing what words he would use to describe the cowardly/brutish/lazy/stupid/pitiful arabs with uncanny foresight. Similarly for the British.I won't deny there are important charges there, or indeed that much of the book is approximately on track. Of course the Israelis were abhorrently treated by the wartime europeans, arabs and occupying british. I don't doubt that the blame for many of the problems the nascent state encountered can be placed squarely in the lap of the former British Empire.Those who agree with Uris' views more strongly than I do probably would enjoy this more, being able to root for the Jews more fully. The passion of the author appears to overpower everything else at times (especially the language which becomes somewhat repetitive). However I found the need to 'take everything with a pinch of salt'. Over 600 pages this was incredibly taxing.Meanwhile, as Jewish child after Jewish child grows up to be bright/beautiful/popular/smart/hard-working/loyal and above all ready to blow up some arabs, the melodrama nearly killed me and the romance left me fairly cold.I think in reading this book it's important to remember it was written in 1958, and a lot has happened in the Middle East since then. Especially reading this over the past few days, with a fresh conflict brewing, the context is now very different.In 2008, when Israel is established as a strong, independent state, it's hard to empathise with those first settlers. But it is possible to look at this book and see where the current Israeli attitude comes from. That's an important part of the current peace process, where Israel's actions ARE questionable, and need to be scrutinised.Religious intolerance is every bit as much in evidence in Gaza now as it was around 60 years ago. I found both the depictions of horrendous atrocities perpetrated against the Jews, which must be remembered and are truly chilling, and the hyper-nationalism covering each page of this book extremely disturbing. I would hope such a novel in the 21st century would strike a more reconciliatory tone.