This book is a beloved classic dear to lots of people. Thus I have to give a warning before I say anything else. This time I am going to bethatguy everybody hates. I did not like it. You may call me grumpy old man. I probably read it wrong, quite possible right to left bottom to top (English language edition). If you love the book stop here and proceed no further. Pay no attention to the incoherent ramblings of an old man. This would be me by the way:Usually I give a brief description of plot, at least its initial development. This time I have nothing to say: there is no plot. This book is about a boy's summer, the summer of 1928. The guy and his brother make some small discoveries while some happenings go on around town. These happenings feel like stories with no beginning and almost always no end. Take the one about the Happiness Machine. It felt too obvious to me and too preachy. The inventor's wife came out a stereotypical nagging one. The inventor himself felt retarded.So no plot and no character development: kids remain exactly the same no matter what happens to them. The book has two things to boast about: it is really great at inducing nostalgia (this is a compliment and not criticism!!!) and it is good at showing a boy's childhood experiences of summer. To the first positive part I can reply that I cannot feel any nostalgia for 1928 by definition as even my parents were not born at that time. My reply to the second: there are plenty of books that do it better and with exciting meaningful plots and character developments too.I was bored reading the book.A question came to me during the read and it kept bugging me all the time. What would happened it a transcript of this book was submitted to a publisher not by an undisputed classic of science fiction Ray Bradbury, but an unknown guy John Smith? Would this mess even be published? Would a self-respecting publisher even look at the manuscript twice? We may never know.After finishing this book I almost ended up in a dreadful reading slump. My salvation was switching quickly to my special anti-slump book pile. On the other hand I understand that this is a favorite book of quite a few people with some of them classifying it as classic, so I cannot give it one star for the fear of a lynching mob showing up on my doorsteps.Let me find something nice to say about it and raise the rating. The book has great writing, is a classic, has great writing, and is a classic... I am going in circles, am I not?Two stars is as high as I can go. Yes, I repeat: I most probably read it wrong.P.S. If any of my friends that happened to like this book want to de-friend me, I understand. Sorry. My rating stands no matter what.