Before anything else, I'll say I'm glad I read this book. I'd never read a novel done entirely in free verse before, so I was interested to see how it would turn out.After reading it, I have to say that it's the content of a slight novella stretched across 500+ pages. Theres an astonishing amount of white space and many pages contain no more than nine or ten words. But that's not the crux of my criticism of the book.But rather it's the nature of the stylistic choice to write in verse rather than simple straightforward paragraphs. The bedrock of which is simply that 'verse' implies 'poetry', and 'poetry' in turn promises robust and compact description (the better to navigate the tight strictures of poetic spaces) and inventive and surprising use of language. Sadly, the 'verse' here has little of that. So, I'm left to wonder why the author chose to write this way.It cannot be for story-telling reasons, as the breezy and staccato nature of the stanzas often forces the author to gloss over detail that is vital to the narrative. For instance, at one point the author writes: "Somehow, Lucinda and I found an odd rapport." This is simply statement, not concrete description. How was the rapport odd? What conversations led to this turn of events? What did it sound like? What did Lucinda look like? Sadly, we never find out. This paucity of concrete detail riddles the novel and drains the narrative of tension. We are left instead with lists and pseudo-poetical rhetoric.One could argue that the visual arrangement of the text adds to the novel's depth. And true, the verse is very creatively and painstakingly arranged. Some of it is shaped into wedges, sweeping slopes, slanting V's, or even just plain peppered haphazardly across the page. And I'll admit, some of it is pretty cool. But my alarm bells go off when I feel an author has to resort to textual mimetics in order to give me narrative cues. It indicates weak writing and flaccid plotting.Which brings me to the major weakness of the novel. I can forgive all of the above if the story is compelling. But Hopkins instead falls back on too many predictable cliches and relies on melodrama and shock to compensate for under-characterization and lack of detail. A lot of bad things happen to the protagonist, but my emotional response is blunted by my lack of understanding of her motivations. The character, I guess, is supposed to be troubled and vulnerable and apparently carrying loads of Mommy issues. But the nature of these troubles is never brought to the fore, so the character comes across looking merely stupid, vapid, and appallingly selfish. One could say that that aptly describes the average teenager. But I tend to think they are a little more complex than that.This was a fast read, so I might be willing to give another a try and see if they get any better. Or perhaps try another author who writes in this manner and see if the same faults manifest themselves. If not, then in the future, if I want to read books written in verse, I'll stick with Shakespeare or Milton.