If I found myself in Interstellar's tesseract by a quirk of fate, then chances are I might leave a coded message for my younger self to read Rebecca asap. Since my ill-informed, younger self was not put off by cloyingly sentimental narrators who make the experience of'tell don't show'all the more grating or the gender politics underpinning a work, her reaction to the book would have been more in tune with the multitude of gushing reviews on GR and elsewhere.My heart, for all its anxiety and doubt, was light and free. I knew then that I was no longer afraid of Rebecca. I did not hate her any more. Now that I knew her to have been evil and vicious and rotten I did not hate her any more. She could not hurt me.Rebecca's saving grace is the authorial decision to leave the immature, young bride of Maxim de Winter nameless (let's call her Mary Lu shall we?) and deploy Manderley as a ubiquitous metaphor for the complete power that Rebecca wielded over the hearts of those who lived in her shadow. Everything else the book conjures up in the name of mystery and imagery and Gothic spookiness left me cold and distinctly unmoved - the efforts at creating a sinister environment shrouded in mystery, governed by hidden malignant forces, the detailing of Manderley's extravagantly decorated interiors, primly maintained gardens and beaches, the stilted characterization, the yawn-inducing, uneventful plot progression.Rebecca, the erstwhile mistress of Manderley, served as my only incentive to plod on. And yet the sole character with the kind of layered complexity that would have made the reading of this worthwhile is pigeonholed as a vamp and denied her humanity just so the second Mrs de Winter could have her existence validated in the end. Rebecca's crime? Adultery, being secure in the knowledge of her sexual prowess, possible animal cruelty, projecting a rock-solid self will, and possessing a domineering persona which brings the lilliputian stature of the rest of the two-dimensional characters in focus with embarrassing clarity. Her punishment?(view spoiler)[Getting murdered after contracting a terminal illness.(hide spoiler)]As if this reluctance to develop fully realized characters wasn't enough, du Maurier added to my chagrin by accomplishing the complete sabotage of the concept of'sisterhood'as well.All the while one wishes for Mary Lu to grow a spine and a tongue capable of intelligent speech. But it is only after her husband confesses to never loving Rebecca that she starts to develop confidence in herself. As if Rebecca's entire self worth is hinged on her husband's opinion of her and the mere possibility of Mary Lu's being the sole recipient of Maxim de Winter's 'love' and approval makes her a much worthier person than Rebecca. On top of this obnoxious insinuation that the naive protagonist's self determination is and should be dependent on how she measures up to Rebecca in terms of'feminine virtue', du Maurier makes her inexplicably impervious to the gravity of a murder confession. The narrator also never doubts the legitimacy of her husband's right to escape conviction by law for a terrible crime. So basically, the Cinderella-stand-in's character growth comes at the cost of implicit character assassination of Rebecca and all that she stood for. And this is exactly the kind of subliminal sexism woven into a plot that sets my teeth on edge.Further, a woman's murder is normalized on the assumption that she provoked her assailant into doing it when the provocation is only of a psychological nature, not the physical kind which may vindicate aggression to fend off an attacker. This sounds way too much like'she was wearing a short skirt/drunk/out at night, she was asking for it'logic to me.So Rebecca, all your mystery-horror-suspense shenanigans and vacuous, banal philosophizing may have counted as literary merit in my eyes had I read you five years ago. I'm much too jaded to like you anymore though.