I didn't realize what the biggest problem with this book was until I had finished it - which, thankfully, only took about an hour from start to finish. The biggest problem is that the entire city, society, economy, and all, feels like it was only created to give the main characters something to do with their time.It seems impossible to me that a city could exist for 200+ years with no innovations, no improvements, no advancements, nothing. They're all dependent on a dwindling stock of canned goods and panicking about the periodic short-term blackouts (the longest mentioned in the book is 7 minutes) even though the blackouts have been part of life for everyone there as long as they can remember. Even beyond that, it explicitly states that no one in that 200+ years has managed to create *any kind* of portable light.Think about that. Not only are there no flashlights, there are no lanterns. There are no candles. There are no oil lamps. A couple of people manage to catch a stick on fire and wander into the darkness outside the city with it, only to go mad when the stick inevitably burns out - and NO ONE tries any experiments with any other type of flammable substance to see which might last longer, how it might be fueled, or even think about carrying, what, maybe a back-up stick?The thing about humans is that they're always trying to find out "what happens IF." What happens if I combine vinegar and baking soda. What happens if I set my deodorant on fire (don't laugh; my brother actually did this). What happens if I push this big red button. Without any hint that the people of Ember were being controlled by radio waves, or drugs in their food, or hypno-dream-therapy, I find it completely unbelievable that every single one of them would have such a complete lack of curiosity or even just desperation at their existing circumstances that they don't even attempt to see, maybe, what kinds of fungus are edible, or experiment with any of the electrics while they were still in full supply to find out how they really worked.And that brings us to our heroes: the only two people in the history of Ember who seem to have both an understanding of the deterioration of their society AND the impetus to do something about it (besides marching ineffectually with placards in front of the mayor's house - another sign that the general population of Ember is pretty much standing around begging for someone else to save them). This is why I say that the city is basically a straw-man argument - the only reason for it existing the way it does, for the people acting the way they do, is if you have pre-determined that you want to have a couple of twelve-year-old heroes who are the only ones clever enough, brave enough, and determined enough to accomplish anything at all. The rest of the population is just a monotone backdrop to let the two of them stand out even further.