1.5/5 stars.I probably would never have read this book, but my book club decided to pick it up. I vaguely remember watching some of the TV series when I was a kid, but that's all I had to go on before jumping into this story.Oy, I have thoughts about this book.What I Liked:I listened to this book on audio, and I honestly think that is the way to go. I don't know if I would have enjoyed reading this book in print, but the audio is read by the same actress who played Christy on the TV series, and she did an excellent job. I had no idea conditions were so rough in the Appalachians at the turn of the 20th century. I really enjoyed reading a semi-historical account of how life was for these mountain communities back then, and how difficult it must have been to bring improvements to those communities. Overall, I enjoyed the story, and I liked the ending.What I Didn't Like:As another reviewer said, this book is a theological train-wreck. I'm not even sure where to start. Christy is mentored by a Quaker woman who seems to have some sort of name-it-and-claim-it philosophy and believes in special revelation. The "inner light" is looked to for guidance, and God's guidance is found by characters "looking within themselves" instead of to Scripture. The preacher character argues that not everything in the Bible is true, and that he doesn't believe "the gospel" is enough to change lives. The mountain people's religion is described as their believing in the "God Of The Old Testament", as if the God of the Old and New Testaments are two different gods.At one point, two of the characters, who are basically supposed to be missionaries, have no idea why they are Christians. I would argue that if you have no idea why you are a Christian, you aren't one. I kept hoping that they would come to a true understanding of God and sin, and repentance and faith by the end of the story, but that just didn't happen.It's ironic to me, because at one point the mountain people are described as believing they have to live a certain way to avoid God's wrath, which is a salvation by works belief - but the "missionary" characters in this book seem to be living by the same philosophy, just a different perspective. Much is made about "believing in Christianity" and doing things "God's way", and "loving God and loving people". Seems to me to be works-righteousness as well, just with a different view of who God is.I've said it before and I'll say it again, "believing in Christianity", "doing things God's way", "love God love people" is all very vague and not helpful, because we are not saved by doing things "God's way". We are saved precisely by realizing that we CAN'T do things "God's way" - we are all hopeless sinners, in need of a Savior. In order to be saved, we must recognize God's holiness, that we have sinned and broken God's law, that we do deserve God's wrath for our rebellion against Him; but that Jesus took the punishment for us by dying on the cross for us - and when we repent of our sin and trust in Jesus to save us, He forgives us and offers us eternal life.The characters in this story didn't seem to have any understanding of that at all. Jesus is hardly mentioned at all - I counted twice - and each time He was merely referred to as an "example" and a "fighter against evil". Evil is not defined as sin, but merely as sickness, poverty, tragedy, and ignorance. "The gospel" is mentioned, but never explained. All religious epiphanies come from emotionalism and mystical experiences, including one apparent trip to Heaven.I could put more warnings about the descriptions of gross conditions and sexual content, but I think the theological warnings are enough. There is just so much wrong here theologically, I was incredibly disappointed. If you want a glimpse of the living conditions in the Appalachians, forge ahead with discernment - but if you want solid Christian fiction, skip this one. I wouldn't recommend it.