Sturm and Drang: Self-Destruction, a Tragedy of TemperamentMostly epistolary, this short novel thrusts the reader into the province of Young Werther's psyche by manner of his letters, which are replete with verbal ejaculations, disconnected sentences and fervid flights of fancy, as he moves from summit to summit to deepening valleys.The three main characters are Lotte, Werther and Albert, who is Lotte's older fiance' then husband. The men are nearly diametrically opposed: the latter is older, sensible, established, whereas Werther is immature, idealistic and unstable. Werther believes that no other female in the world exists for him than the first beautiful woman who agrees to dance with him. He simply must have her or his life is not worth living. So the narcissistic twit tries to lay a world of grief upon Lotte's doorstep.Lotte seemed she might have taken to the lad because he allured her sentimental side, and they shared a measure of passion of which Albert was wanting. On the other hand, Lotte's tranquil demeanor and assumption of her late mother's duties in raising her younger siblings gave her the sensibility to realize Werther was highly unsuitable as a mate given his incurably romantic, effusive and erratic personality traits.This was probably the first notable novel of a tragedy arising from an internal struggle with one's own feelings or emotions. It is a tragedy of temperament, rather than one caused by circumstances beyond one's control. Indeed, I'd argue that this dude would have pulled his plug over his first major setback in life.Werther's struggle is inside. The outside circumstances furnish the cause for his revealing this internal strife. He epitomizes a soul endeavoring for absolutes and straining for unconditional love, propelled by a raging river that clutches one's existence, continually mutating life into a sequence of severe intrinsic episodes. Because Werther's existence is cored on his emotions and he has no objective counterbalance or outflow into other activities, each emotion adds a centrifugal pull until his life spins into a self-destructive vortex.It is ironic that the novel provoked a wave of suicides by young males across Europe because it emerges as more of an indictment of the perils of undisciplined passions than any kind of provocation to imitate Werther. Goethe wroteThe Sufferings of Young Wertherin his 25th year and it was the beginning and end of his involvement in the "Sturm and Drang" (storm and stress) movement, given that he saw Werther's soul as the inexorable result of the unchecked emotional storms lauded by the movement, many of whose writers' careers ended in suicide or lunacy.