Okay so nobody died. Yay! Still, it was boring.It was basically this guy who was making calls the whole year to get things in order. I was waiting for a conflict but there was none whatsoever. That's a lot coming from someone who doesn't like conflict very much. It also got predictable halfway through the book. As in I knew, somehow, who the wedding was for. I think it was because she said her daughter would regret it if she didn't have a "proper wedding" ... but that's just me.The book was well written as in it was easy to read so it was okay. My major issue is in the story. I see why most women would love this book (that may sound stereotypical but, hey ...). I mean, who wouldn't want to feel like a queen and have her husband court her again ... and over and over again? I'd love that too but I feel for a guy who is faithful to his wife and did his best to provide for his family but, apparently, is still "majorly" flawed because ... I dunno, he couldn't say "I love you" all the time because it wasn't in his nature. It seems a bit petty. If, for example, he brought her perfume for their anniversary, one that he let his secretary pick, would he have known that she felt that way? Would she have cried? Would she go to NY to be away on her own? Also, I'm not an expert on being a parent and in marital affairs but would a mother go to her kids about marital issues? Would a mother burden her children about it? Hey why don't I make my son the shock absorber, never mind that he'll surely pick my side and hate his father afterwards. Again, I'm no expert but I think I'd go to my friends. Or my siblings, even.There's another side to this so why lay blame? Maybe she was too busy tending to the kids too that when they left, she, herself, didn't know what to do with the two of them being alone. She did bury and busy herself in redecorating the house after their kids left, right? And they didn't say in the book that she asked him to go away on vacation or anything. Men can be dense.Don't get me wrong. I loved that they made the marriage work in the end. Or I should say HE did something to make it work in the end. But people say a relationship is always a two-way street ...