Don'tread this review unless you have read the book, it contains a lot of the books spoilers. Also, don't read if you actuallylikedthe book and the characters....you won't like what I have to say if you do.^^^Thispicture sums up the bull shit thatisthis book but please, read on to find out what really pissed me off.* Warning *Ifyou're easily offended by a foul mouthed, aggressive Irish female thenDON'Tread thisfuckingreview.First off, I'm not usually this much of a bitch to slam a book to such an extent as I am about to do with this book but this isn't towards the author directly as a person, just the characters she created. I could just give this a one star rating (no stars really) but these characters got under my skin and made me fume. I have to voice my problems with them and the book in general! So, here we go.This review is a easy one for me. I definitely hated the book way more than I liked it, but yet for an unknown I kept reading it even though it put me in a foul mood. I couldn't put the fucking thing down no matter how many times I tried. The damn thing was like watching a train wreck in motionANDit was thelongest read of my entire fucking life.I literally felt like I aged twenty years after I was done with this book. That's not a good thing, I like how when I read a good book and I reach the final page I get sad when I realise it's actually over. I fuckingcheeredwhen I reached the last page of this damn thing!!Now, it's not that rare for me to dislike a female character, everyone has a few who pissed them off but Kiera? She holds the grand prize for my most hated female character.Ever! I loathe her with afucking passion. I wanted to kick her, punch her, ram her into a wall head first. I wanted to commit every type of physical assault possible on this disgusting creature. She was so damn pathetic that I found myself getting into a extremely bad mood being inside her stupid head.She is the definition of a filthy slut. She really is, she led Kellan on time and time again and just destroyed poor Denny, who I legit wanted to cry for.I know they say you can't help who you fall in love with but this bitch could, she was already in love with Denny so she knew exactly what she was getting herself into with Mr. Rock-God from the get go!Who the fuck canfriendlyflirt innocently when they are constantly alone and cuddled up on a couch? ClearlyNOTthese two mother fuckers because it leads to lots of fucking blushing and a lot of 'confusion' on Keira's part.I mean,really?Yeah, it must be terrible to havetwostunners loving and lusting after you. Fuck off, you undeserving little dickhead!I disliked pretty much all the character's but don't get me wrong, I liked Kellan as character for the first 20% of the book but only to an extent because he was a bit of a bitch from 20% onwards. When he started to beg and fall over Keira he made me want to drop kick him.I originally liked how he was described. The hot, bad boy, rock star does it for me, but Ireallyhated what an arsehole he was to his supposedly best friend Denny. Who the hell does what Kellan did to another person? Especially a person who you consider important to you?I mean shagging your best friends girl is low,veryfucking low!Then to make things worse for Denny he quits his dream job to come home to Kiera aka filthy slut. I didn't even feel sorry for her during that time period when he was away and she was missing him. I knew she would be clingy, at the very start of the book it clearly states she couldn't live without Denny and applied to all the schools he did and wouldn't take no for an answer and chose to live with him.That to me she is a stage five clinger who just happens at the time to be feeling guilty but not woman enough to admit her errors - screwing her boyfriends best friend - and let the guy go be with someone who isn't a constant blushing cunt maybe?Denny was just maimed in this book. I don't care how things worked out and the end for him going back home, he literally took a blow from Kellan's not-really-father to protect him when he was younger, then when he went away (to work his arse of for himself and Kiera's future) he fully trusted Kellan to take care of her. Not to screw him over with her... literally.IHATEDthe message the book gave! It'sNOTokay to cheat on someone and it isNOTokay to use someone to make the prick you're cheating with jealous becauseyou'rejealous of him shaggy everything with a vagina and pulse.I was not happy with the using of people like they were dirt but I hate Kiera so much that when Kellan showed his man whoring ways I cheered the bastard on.AND JESUS CHRIST! If I had to read about the filthy slut blushing one more time I was going to punch someone. No joke, her blushing at something happened on every fucking page let alone every chapter! The word blush must have been on each page at least five times and it pissed me thefuck off. Why did the author repeat that so much? If you took the blushing away, 60% of stupid fucking book would be gone!Her face waspermanentlyred for most of the fucking book!As much as Kellan pissed me off for being the world's shittiest best friend, I was secretly hoping he and Denny would hook up, fall in love and leave the filthy slut all alone to sulk in her sluttiness. She didn't deserve either of them.I wouldgladlytake the Australian stud of her hands and she can keep the messed up dude who is capable of lying and cheating on those he loves, he sure sounds like a dreamy guy I'd introduce to my dad...NOT!!Lord, just thinking about this bull crap book annoys me. I definitely willNOTbe reading the follow up book. I would sooner gauge my eyes out that read from the perspective of that horrible creature again.Anyway yeah Ihatedthis...Peace!Just My Bucking Book Blog