This book is noisy. Too noisy that it makes it painful to read. The characters are always talking as if they are all suffering from dialog diarrhea. Not only that. Wolfe likes to capture every single sound from either human or non-human entities in the novel. Take this as an example:Haw haw haw haw haw haw haw,sang the Towheaded Tenor...Hack hack hack hack hack hack hack,sang Inez Bavardage....Hock hock hock hock hock hock hock hock hock hock hock,bawled his own wife.or this:The elevator starts down. It's overpowering hot inside. All jammed together.Aaah, aaaahh, aaaaaaah, aaaaaaaahhhh.Sherman realizes it's himself, gulping for air, himself and Quigley, too and Brucie and the other court office, the fat one.Aaaaah, aaaaahhhh, aaaaaaahhhhhh, aaaaaaahhhhhhhh, aaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhh.There are many, many of those in the novel and they all make me dizzy and I want to vomit. I have been busy and a bit pressured last week and this 690-page painful-to-read novel did not help in anyway. Wolfe's writing reminds me of the many kids plays I used to share with my nowin the overseaselder frugal brother:Kuya:(while holding an old paint brush)Meron akong airplane! Wooooooo.... tsoooooong.....weeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee(and the paint brush flies)Me(while holding a broken flashlight)Ako naman ay barko! Tsug tsug tsug tsug wuuuuuuuuuuuu pot pot!(and the flashlight sails)Kuya:: (the paint brush goes near my flashlight)Bobombahin daw ng airplane ko ang barko mo para lumubog! Swisssssssh.... Ratatatatat..... KABOOOM!(and he kicks my flashlight).Me: (i run to the kitchen and shout)Nanay, o si Kuya ......!If I were a teenager or a lot younger, this novelThe Bonfire of the Vanities(first published in 1987) could have been an enjoyable read. It tells us about New York in the 80's at the time when the racial discrimination cases were still rampant. Go to Wikipedia and read the historical background of this novel:In 1982, there was black guyWillie Turks, who was murdered in the Gravesend section of Brooklyn and in 1986, another black guyMichael Griffithin Howard Beach, Queens. Both guys were killed by whites. In another episode was a reversal of role and it that became a subject of much media attention, white guyBernhard Goetzbecame something of a folk-hero in the city for shooting a group of black men who tried to rob him in the subway.I could make a long litany of how the characters in this novel participate in the circus trial. How the 39-y/o WASP, Yale educated, Park Avenue resident, Wall Street financierSherman McCoylosses everything when his Mercedes car sideswipes an 18-y/o black honor student, dreaming to enter college but poorHenry Lamb. How Sherman's mistressMaria Teresa Ruskintries to evade her responsibility (she is the driver at the time of the incident) by going to Italy. How the black preacherReverend Baconis planning to make money out of black communities' anti-racial sentiment. How a lowly reportPeter Fallowwins the Pulitzer award by being always in the right place and time releasing scoops about the case no matter how devious are the ways he gets his information. How the second-rate District AttorneyLawrence Kramerrises to fame and fortune by manipulating the black community and turning it into a mob heckling the court proceedings. I could write a nice anti-apartheid review and use big words to express my sentiments and flatter my Goodreads friends who care to read my review.However, I will not do that because I hate this novel. Reasons:1. This came into a time when I was not in the mood for this kind of noisy novel. My head is dizzy from working at extended hours and reading 690-page noisy novel when I come home is a torture.2. I could not relate to this novel's setting. I have not been to New York so I have no idea of the locale. How could Sherman missed a turn, from picking up Maria at the airport, and found themselves in the Bronx. Then they tried hard to find the Manhattan Bridge that would be their only way to go back to downtown New York. Neither do I have any idea of how Park Avenue and those high-class apartments look like.3. I could not relate to this novel's characters. I have not been into a court and I am no lawyer. I have not had any real interactions with black people. I have not been into a trading floor. I only have Petron stocks that I bought through SSS loan many years ago and I don't know what to do with those. I have not been incarcerated but only saw those gruesome filthy pens in the movies or read in the books, recently for example in Brendan Behan'sBorstal Boy.However, because of Wolfe's writing style, I think this is one of the cases when I think a movie adaptation (1990 starring Tom Hanks, Melanie Griffith and Bruce Willis - see how young they were in the book cover) will be a lot better than its book. Sounds will be real and each shriek, each bang will only last for few seconds. Unlike in the book that it lasts until you are done with the particularly scene.I only regret the 6 days that I spent reading this long novel. However, I don't regret spending PHP30.00 (US$0.55) when I bought this in Booksale Megamall in March 2009. In fact this is one of the first 1001 books that I bought. This novel and Laura Hillenbrand'sSeabiscuitare two of the books that I almost always see when I visit any Booksale outlets. Now if you see this book and you care about New York in the 80's go and grab a copy and if you are in the mood for bang-bang non-war related noise that will linger in your ears for days, be my guest - read this book.