Ah, the bible... where does one even begin when attempting to offer a thought upon something so massive as this book; a tome that has brought such incredible and remarkable division in the world, enabling fanatics to spawn from the depths of an inner and hateful desire to pass judgement on another, to persecute another, to condemn another and to do so in the name of God.Judging by the conduct of those who hold fast to this book's 'teachings' (you all know of which cult I am referring to), its safe to say that either these people are horribly mistaken in their understanding of this book's text, or the one in whom they act for, who they represent, is in fact a giant asshole, who, based on what we have all learned from his followers, is planning on sending us all to burn in fire and not just temporarily but for eternity, making it safe to assume that of all the sadistic pieces of shits that have ever walked this earth, this god of the The-Community-Who-Shall-Not-Be-Named, is the worst of them.Let me get real. I love Jesus. I love God. I believe in God's existence, I believe in the sacrifice of Jesus as well as his Resurrection. Furthermore, I believe in what that Resurrection accomplished, which based on certain texts of the Bible, was saving the entire human race. ENTIRE RACE!Funny enough, The-Community-Who-Shall-Not-Be-Named does not believe this - despite it saying so... But never mind, the point I am trying to make, is that I am not some religious hater who is going on a rant and know nothing of which I am speaking. On the contrary, I do and consider myself an expert when it comes to why the Bible has led people astray, why The-Community-Who-Shall-Not-Be-Named is fraudulent, who ironically, do not know God and therefore, misrepresent him, hurt the people God loves, the people he died for, which is every single body... by doing all the above, the Community does what it preaches it doesn't, which is; Satan's bidding, ensuring that people who seek Jesus, never find him.Here it is: Jesus died for all humanity (Romans 5). Jesus intercepts on our behalf when we sin, and not just 'us' but the entire human race (John 1) and that despite what we have been taught, has secured paradise for everyone; including homosexuals, prozies, lezzos, atheists, and Christians, which is saying a lot about how much He loves us, especially if even Christians get to enjoy Heaven.This bible hurts because it is taught by those who do not know God.