Now this is what I call torture. I have literally never suffered when reading a book, like I suffered when reading Passion. This book really was a pain to read. I wanted to punch something so badly that I ended up taking a jog in the middle of the day to calm down because I am that furious with Lauren Kate. Lauren, thanks to you I damaged my brain not just by banging my head.It makes me want to cry because I liked the first two books in the series (they weren't some epic books, but they were enjoyable), but this book was so beyond crap and boring and repetitive that it made me want to stab myself to death with the cactus on my desk.On the plus side, there was some character development. Luce definatelly became more stupid and stubborn than she was in the previous books. I mean she was stupid enough to trust an ugly gargoyle with her life. Ok, let's say you're walking down the street in the middle of the night, and a van stops next to you. The window rolls down and a piss drunk asshole offers you a ride home. Would you say yes? Luce trusting that ugly-ass gargoyle was a hundred times stupider that saying yes to the piss drunk asshole to take you home.And every other page Luce kept talking about howpureandstrongtheir love is - IT'S SICKENING!!! (Ok side note. If their love is so freaking strong why did she go on that fucking trip to the past?) And she always kept describing his chest all the time and how much she adores his washboard. What happened Lauren? Lost your writing talent in the imaginary Daniels abs? UGHHHH!!!!I'd like to talk about this one particular line in the book. "One day our love will conquer this dark cycle." (Daniel, p. 379 of the paperback edition I own) I am not joking, but this line made me laugh like a maniac until I started choking on air because that is the most stupid thing I ever heard anyone say.Bullshit, Daniel,BULLSHIT!!!Their love - or love in general -can notdo anything other than be love. Love willnotmake a homeless guy rich. Love willnotmake me get into the university I want, so love will definitelynotconquer a curse.