I'm in the minority here: I didn't likeEvery Day, and the more I think about the book, the more it angers me.The main character, A, is Dr. Sam Beckett; A quantum-leaps from person to person, landing in a different host each day. A has no body of A's own, having been leaping since A was an infant at least. There are a few rules limiting the leaps:1. A leaps only into a host of approximately the same age, and A appears to age in the same progression as a human (that is, A at one is mentally indistinguishable from a human at one). At the time of this story, A is sixteen.2. A's leaps have some sort of geographical upper limit; the only way for A to, say, leave the state is if the person A leaps into leaves the state that day. This limit plus the previous raise questions about what will happen when A gets to be, say, ninety. The number of suitable hosts will go down, and their geographical distance will increase. And what happens if a host dies while A is in possession?3. A makes the leap at midnight each day. It isn't clear whether midnight is relative or absolute (i.e., would A leap at 11 P.M. if A were in the Central time zone rather than Eastern? Does A spend exactly twenty-four hours in each host?), but relative is implied. (Which suggests that one way for A to never leap would be to travel west fast enough. And what would happen if A possessed an astronaut on launch day?)4. A never leaps into the same person twice.5. A can "access" the memories of A's host, but only in regard to facts, not feelings. Also, A can't access foreign languages fast enough for fluency, which raises some interesting questions about the nature of language acquisition as related to A.In fact, all of these rules raise some interesting questions. And if you are the sort of person who thinks in these terms - here are the limitations, now what are the implications of those limitations? - then you WILL NOT like this book. (Another reviewer of this book referred to this frame of mind as "logic-hobbled". Thanks. Maybe I should refer to YOU as "unimaginative".) None of these questions get answered, and in fact, the book brings up more questions as it goes on (it turns out that there are other entities like A, and that itispossible to remain in the same host indefinitely. HEY WHAT? But no, this concept doesn't get explored much). Oh, and what do A's hosts remember about having hosted A? Well, it depends on what the plot needs. At first, A doesn't know what they remember, but then, a few days later, A has suddenly gained the ability to implant perfect false memories in A's hosts.I will say, though, that I actually wasn't all that bothered by the lack of answers. It was pretty obvious from the first few pages that Levithan isn't the sort of author who really cares about those details (I'm sure he would agree with Emerson*). So since I could tell I wasn't going to get the kind of story I would have liked, I instead focused on the story wedidget.And the story we did get is...not good. There are two main threads of the book. The first is the story of A's Twoo Wuv, which is, naturally, Nice Guy apologism with a heaping helping of stalker apologism. Stalking is romantic, didn't you know?The second main thread is a series of after school specials focusing on the plights of various victim groups. It was tedious and predictable. Today we will learn about depression! Today we will learn about illegal aliens! Today we will learn about transsexuals! Today we will learn about obesity! Today we will learn about beauty! Also A doesn't really have a gender and so we will learn about that! And so forth. Didactic, agenda-driven, andboring.Back to the first thread. A falls in love with Rhiannon, the girlfriend of one of A's hosts. The passages describing her areclassicNice Guy crap - only A can see her secret sadness, only A can see what a kind and interesting person she is, only A can see that she wants to be "part of the world" (what does that even mean?), and OF COURSE only A can make her happy, because she is A's Twoo Wuv. So naturally, A begins stalking Rhiannon and plotting to get her and her boyfriend broken up so she'll be free to date A. You know, as Nice Guys do. It's even creepier because A is using A's hosts to do so. So not only is Rhiannon being stalked and having her privacy violated, but also, every person who serves as A's host gets violated as well.And we are supposed to sympathize with A.I can't even express how furious this makes me. A is not the victim here. Yes, A's existence sucks, butA is not the victim. The people A is possessing AND VIOLATING are the victims. A forces A's victims to skip school, miss tests, miss trips to Hawaii, lie to family, etc., etc. All things that A knows full well A's hosts don't want to do. A is POSSESSING A's hosts. In the beginning, A tries to be a good guest - go along for the day, don't do anything A's host wouldn't do - but A's stalkerish obsession with Rhiannon leads A to completely ignore A's own rules.The only, and I do mean ONLY, saving grace of this book is that A finally realizes that what A -with the complicity of Rhiannon OMGWTFBBQ?!?- is doing to A's hosts is GROSS AND WRONG AND EVIL and goes back to A's original set of rules. (After violating a couple more people first, of course.)One last complaint, and then I'm done. One of A's hosts, Nathan, who got particularly thoroughly violated, retained a partial memory of what had happened to him. He had been possessed and forced to do things he didn't want to do. He describes his experience as possession, and concludes that it must be the work of the devil. And the tone of the book regarding this kid is derision. "That dumbass, how can he believe in demonic possession? A isn't the devil. What a dummy. And the people who believe him are even dumber."But the thing is, Nathan WAS possessed. He WAS forced to act against his nature by A, who had taken over his body. As part of A's conflict with Nathan, A discovers, as previously mentioned, that there are other entities like him. One such entity has taken over a religious leader and is claiming to help Nathan with his possession experience. That entity is pretty clearly malevolent. How is that entity's behavior different from demonic possession? And there are MORE entities like this out there. And yet, the narration thinks that people who believe in demons are stupid and deserve condescension. This is like saying, "Well, ok, sure, I drink human blood to survive, and I combust in sunlight, and I have to sleep on a bed of my native soil, and I don't have a reflection, and there are other people like me out there, and some of them are malevolent, but VAMPIRES DON'T EXIST AND BELIEVING IN VAMPIRES IS STUPID AND YOU ARE STUPID FOR BELIEVING IN THEM." What?!?!?In conclusion, this book has thoroughly earned one of my rare one-star reviews. I don't recommend it at all.*"A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of small minds." Something Emerson said, probably when a "logic-hobbled" buddy of his pointed out a gaping hole in one of his essays.