This is a negative review. If you enjoyed the book, that's great! Sadly, I didn't, so please respect my opinion as I will respect yours.THE RANT BEGINS.Chapter One. We're presented with a pretty confusing situation, without knowing who's who and what is going on (I almost thought I had by mistake picked up the sequel, because it felt like I was missing out on something.) But at least we have what seems like a kick-ass main character, Rose, and a strong female friendship between her and Lisa, so I was like:Then a mildly interesting premise suddenly turns into high school drama and terrible writing, so I was like:Things keep getting worse, because Rose is acting like the spoiled thirteen-year-old we've all been (despite her being what, seventeen?), thinking she's tough shit and that insulting authority figures, being rude and punching people in the face whenever they disagree with her is the best course of action. So, while trying really hard to be a badass, she ends up looking like an immature brat, and I was like:By this point I had almost forgotten about the whole vampire thing, because the book was basically a cheaper version of Mean Girls, with a lot of slut-shaming, girl-on-girl hate and most characters just being juvenile and stupid, so I was like:But then I thought,come on Jun, there must be a reason why so many people love this book... You can't give up just yet!because, apparently, I really hate myself. A lot of nonsensical things happened: dead animals started to turn up everywhere, Rose was more annoying than ever, some high school hierarchy bullshit, more girl-on-girl hate, a boring love interest that treated Rose like a misbehaving child (which she was, but I still wanted to slap him for it)... and by then I was about to fall asleep.Enter a rushed and underwhelming ending, and boring characters being more boring than usual. On top of stupidity, internalized sexism and a plot that consisted solely on young girls hating on each other, and on boys calling them names and being generally awful, add some horrible writing and a fucking weird pacing that made me want to DNF the book at least every two pages. The hype is A LIAR. I will not be continuing this series.