David Levithan formed the perfect hypothesis, but he failed to design an experiment, plan an observation or conduct a research and quench the bits which mattered the most. Instead, he took the easier route out and declared the result unreachable when it could have, so easily, been created right out of the never-emptying vaults of his mind.Sometimes, an author gets a brilliant idea, an idea that is out of this world, untried, new and unique and awaiting to challenge him and his readers alike. David Levithan had had such an idea occur to him: an idea that is an instant appeal to any audience curious enough. An idea that has so many countless possibilities and doors open for exploration and knowledge and rides of humongous thrills and fictious amusement. An idea which draws its power from the intriguing absurdity of it. Once you spot the synopsis, you can notnotwonder what the story is about and would be like (unless you're some form of an oppressor of fantasy or just plain dismisser of anything one-of-a-kind). Even if you wouldn't read, you'd still wonder... and then perhaps turn that wonder into a plan to find out what it's all about.This was all that I felt when I picked up Every Day. Plus the whole sweet whiff of romance sounded so warm and nice.Every single dedicated chapter of the book was a sword digging deeper and deeper into my Nerve of Tolerance. You seem to be a man of wide-margined and unbound imaginations, but Mr. Levithan, I hope you realize the kind of opportunity you passed up on by leading this book into a direction completely regretful and extremely far from where I pictured it would be going. This book, the magnificent idea it harbours, could have turned into such a SWELL fiction, or an urban fantasy or any other tale of sorts. But you, Sir, you left all the questions unanswered and plunged your eye-brow raising idea into the deepest seas of confused emotions and a muddle of love.I never got what I was actually looking for in the book. I was looking for the paths lighting ways deeper into the theory you created, woe is me.There should be a mention, however, of David Levithan's writing style which is unexpectedly compelling and has a tone of 'factualness' about it - a tone I find quite endearing, hence making my regrets of the story going downwhill inflate in size. No exaggerations in his words or portrayals of destestable and time-wasting thoughts.Read this only if you're a reader who cares not for logic, solutions, depth of exploration of ideas, characters with definite genders and a sense of morality and a story of sound closure.A treasure of an idea gone to utter waste - right from the beginning.Kathryn's review sums up all my questions and opinions on this novel pretty nicely:http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...