I've just started this book, and there are a number of things in which this book is disappointing.For one, Melissa de la Cruz keeps on nagging about what everybody is wearing. On and on. I couldn't care less. It also contributes to annoying fact #2. The books moves damn slowly. I'm on page 97 and nothing has happened so far. And the same plot-hints are being dropped over and over. I'm laying the book away now, perhaps I will finish it later...... And I picked it up anyway, like 3 hours later.. and finished it. The story does have some potential, but I'm not really enthousiastic about it. Also, the latin in the book wasn't correct, I'm definitely subtracting points for that. And why is it latin in the first place? If Gabriel and Micheal and all those others were cast down from heaven, and all the bla bla bla, shouldn't it be hebrew? Rome didn't even exist yet. I also skipped all the lines about describing outfits, I think it reduced about 10% of the lines per page. She describes what everbody is wearing, on every occasion. That's so non-interesting. I'm glad a finished this book, and I'm pretty sure I'm not reading any more books of this series.I'm going to include some of the clothing descriptions, to illustrate my annoyance;#1Schuyler always looked like she was drowning in fabric. The black sweater reached almost to her calves, and underneath she wore a sheer black T-short over a gray thermal undershirt; and under that, a long peasant skirt that swept the floor. Like a nineteenth century street urchin, her skirt hems were black with dirt from dragging on the sidewalks. She was wearing her favorite pair of black-and-white Jack Purcell sneakers, the ones with the duct-taped hole on the right toe. ...10 lines below that:#2He was wearing a severe military greatcoat over a flannel shirt and a pair of holey blue jeans. Of course, the flanel shirt was John Varvatos and the jeans from Citizens of Humanity...#3They'd settled on a sexy-but-in-an-off-beat-bohemian-way-with-straps-just-falling-off-the-shoulder-just-so-Marni camisole, a tiny denim Earnest Sewn miniskirt, and a sparkly Rick Owens cashmere wrap.#4But somehow, she'd arrived for the first day wearing a pastel Ralph Lauren sweater with a plaid Anna Sui kilt (in en effort to look more like the girls featured in the school catelog), with a honking white leather Chanel purse on a gold chain slung over her shoulder, only to find her classmates dressed down in grotty fisherman sweaters and distressed corduroys.And so on and so forth...