This is the kind of book that people say they like because they're too afraid to admit they don't understand its spiritual mumbo jumbo. First off I thought this book was going to be about the Buddha not some random sinful man who coincidentally shares the same name!Siddhartha is a patronizing, stuck-up, heartless young brahmin who believes that he's pretty much superior to everyone else around him, despite that fact that his only skills are the ability to "think, pray, and fast" which let's face it is pretty useless in the real world, unless you have other skills to back it up! At one point Siddhartha says and I quote "He saw the people in a childish or animal-like way, which he both loved and despised." Seriously? Despite being so high and mighty himself, Siddhartha falls into the traps of "mere" human existence, going regularly to a famed courtesan, gambling, drinking and growing complacent. Then as if the story isn't NAUSEATING enough he suddenly gets this idea in his head that he's "full of death" at the age of forty! Others would simply call this a mid-life crisis but Siddhartha goes all crazy and suicidal.I suppose there was a little bit of good in this book. The actual writing was beautiful and the plot wasn't lacking. Hmmm what else can I highlight as good? It wasn't too long. That's it for good.Of course people mess up in life, nobody's perfect, but I've never seen somebody throw away their chances as often as this ungrateful Siddhartha! Everything just drops unto his shiny golden plate and yet he refuses to take it, he refuses to work for anything, he refuses to pray, he even refuses to love! He spends half the book begging for his food and the other half not giving back.And then suddenly Siddhartha gets up and moves again! He is constantly running from his different selves. And he becomes this happy little ferryman and finds peace in nature and blah blah blah. And this continues for an annoying length of time. He meets himself at a younger age and finally realizes what a complete neanderthal he was and is content to waste away next to his precious river, which by the way speaks to him. Perhaps a sign of his deteriorating mind?I think the problem that is Siddharta originated at birth and slowly grew out of control. In one section of the book Siddhartha says this about himself: "All whom I meet on the way are like Govinda (his friend). All are grateful, although they themselves deserve thanks, All are subservient, all wish to be my friend, to obey and think little. People are children." He has always been the best, the brightest, the richest, and the most handsome. Thus his ego has had time to fester and grow until by the time he's a young man it's completely out of proportion!I don't know what this story was supposed to convey but I'm guessing the moral was "love". All I got was a serious sense of depression and the thought that there's pretty much no reason to live, hope, or dream. No thanks Herman Hesse, but if everyone lived the way Siddhartha did the world sure would be a boring place. Nobody would make any effort to do anything or make anything. It would be hopeless.