ok let me get something cleared up here. I can't make excuses for why I didn't enjoy this book like "it's because I don't like romance" or "erotica just isn't up my alley". I have read and LOVED books that definitely count as romance and/or erotica (Easy,The Girl in 6E, HECK I even lovedAnna and the French Kiss) so that just won't fly.The reasons I hated this book are as follows:1. The writing was bad. Like reallllly bad. And I'm not normally super picky about writing (I'm clearly not a literature snob or anything, look at my favorite books) so that's really saying a lot. It was horrifically repetitive, and not in a way that enhanced the story (The main character's inner thoughts included the phrase "I am liquid" about a hundred times in many different contexts, and my brain turned to liquid a bit every single time.) Each chapter also alternated between the two main characters, and it did NOT work for me (skip to 2b for answers on this point).2. The characters were also really bad.a) Tate, our main character, is a working RN and is in the process of getting her masters in nursing. HOWEVER, 99% of her thoughts are about Miles (we'll get to him in a bit) and about 1% of her cares and worries are about school or her job. And I get that this is a romance novel, but is it not possible to make the characters actually believable? Even a little?? Her obsessiveness really got on my nerves, and the worst part is she claims to be this strong woman, yet she submits to every thing Miles wants and even refers to many of her encounters with him as "invading". How is this okay???b) Miles. He's the classic tortured soul leading man, constantly brooding in the corner. His chapters take place 6 years before the present day (Tate's chapters) and are all about him obsessing over this girl Rachel. He's so infatuated by her that he repeats her name 20 times per page, and his inner thoughts even become POETRY. Yup, his chapters are written in verse. Why? JUST TO BE DRAMATIC. It really made no sense, and it broke up the narrative in a super strange way.3. The plota) Without spoiling anything, this is really all that happens in the book: sex, and Miles being a douchebag. Granted, he went through a crazy tragedy 6 years previous, but in my opinion that doesn't automatically make it okay for him to treat people the way he does. If the writing hadn't been so bad, the sex scenes might have been okay, but still, MILES IS HORRIBLE so probably not. Tate constantly acknowledges that he's being emotionally abusive but she stays with him anyway, and continues to do whatever he says.b) the big tragedy. I'm obviously not going to say what it is, but it was horrible (both literally and in regards to this book.) I only really kept reading the book to find out what it was, and when I did, I nearly pulled one of these:It was so appalling that something like that would be used as a plot device, and as justification for Miles to treat people like shit? It was almost offensive because of WHY it was used.SO YEAH. I don't give out 1-star reviews to books very often, but when I do it's for a good reason. If you followed my status updates on this at all you'll know how eye-rollingly cringe-worthy the experience of reading this book was for me, and I highly urge you to avoid this at all costs. It was a trainwreck.