Ohhhh boy I'm steamed, I'm really steamed here... I'm all worked up about how much I hated this book. Somebody talk me down from this rant I'm about to deliver... RANT ENSUING.I am going to start by saying that I know Colleen Hoover is capable of writing very wonderful books. I lovedHopelessandSlammedso I had no reason to suspect that this book would be taking the fast train to suck-ville. However, I'm in suck-ville and I am hating it here.Also, everyone else seems to LOVE this book. I mean over 45,000 ratings and a 4.40 average GR rating?? I must be losing my mind? Maybe that is it? But let me break it down for you all why this book is on my craptastic book list:1) The immaturity of the MCs.Holy hell Will and Lake act like children in this book! It is like they regressed mentally in the past year since "Slammed" and now function only as pissy children. Lake throws tantrums constantly (Will's words, not just mine), and Will somehow thinks it is acceptable to use his 10 year old brother and neighbor to do his dirty work for him. There is no communication between them. Just childish misunderstandings and petty fighting. They are freaking 19 and 23 years old!!! They whine and complain and oh GOD it was annoying.2) The stupid stuff that Will does.Does anyone remember the Will from "Slammed"? Anyone? The Will that was a responsible teacher? The one that was level-headed and took responsibility for his actions? The one that weighed the pros and cons of every decision? Well, apparently he is gone now and this new Will has taken his place. This new Will thinks it is acceptable to disable someone's car battery in order to get them to ride in a car with you (WTF!!!!), hold a present from one's deceased mom hostage (yea, he did that), and threaten a 12 year old kid with ass kicking and call him a pathetic human being. Who is this guy? This Will is so stupid I could barely read about him.3) Bad parenting 101.Let me remind you all that Will was a teacher and wants to go to grad school to keep teaching. So when his brother writes a note in school threatening to KILL someone, you would think that Will would realize how serious that is. Wouldn't he? Instead, Will thought that it was FUNNY that his younger brother death threatened another student and didn't want to punish him AT ALL. I'm not saying he has to be a perfect parent, I know I'm not, but those types of things are no joking matter, regardless of the reason. If his brother had gotten into a fight over a girl's honor, I would get that. However, it is never okay to threaten another student with DEATH, regardless of the reason. I would have thought that Will, as a former teacher, would have a greater understanding of that.4) The catch phrases.Am I smoking crack here? Why was no one else IRRITATED by the constant catch phrases? In the first book, they were kind of cute and meaningful but here, they were just irritating as all hell. If I hear "butterflying", "carving pumpkins", or "point of retreat" one more time I am going to blow a gasket.5) The totally unrealistic POV of Will.I hated the POV change from Lake to Will in this book. Will did not act like a 23 year old man. In fact, he acted just like a 12 year old girl. The way he acted about sex was totally unrealistic. It was just so far removed from what an early 20s guy would do. I can understand waiting the year to have sex as per Lake's mom (which that alone was so silly, but I'll let that go) but it is like he freaked out whenever they got close to hooking up. Like removing her shirt gave him the willies. What guy would act like that?!?! None, I tell you. Is the author religious and I didn't know it? Is this book geared for a tween audience? Freaking "Twilight" was more sexual than this. I can see them being tasteful in the writing but how it played out just didn't ring true.6) The silly drama.I honestly think that this book had no point other than to create and deal with silly drama. There was no new story to tell. The book was just a series of events that would probably not happen in real life piled together.Now folks, I know my point of view will most likely differ from yours. I know that this review was pretty ranty but I just can't BELIEVE how different this was from the first book. I don't think I'm going to move on to the next book in the series because I don't want to be a party pooper anymore. Sorry everyone.**Copy provided by the publisher in exchange for an honest review**