warning: this review contains anger, copious swearing, and discussion of rape and misogyny.whenever anyone asks me what my least favourite book is, i always say this, which seems odd considering it's been voted as the 100 best books on a bbc list or whatever it was.usually, when i study a book, my appreciation and enjoyment of it multiplies tenfold. take, for example,the great gatsby, which i had liked previously but became one of my favourite books of all time when i began to study it.now this... thing.i don't understand why it has so much critical acclaim, i don't understand why i'm studying it at A Level, and i don't understand why it's one of the nation's favourite novels.i don't understand.the novel opens before the war, and stephen has an affair with isabelle. although isabelle does consent, there are some really rapey and misogynistic undertones that make mehighlyuncomfortable and i have no fucking idea why faulks decided to include them. choice extracts include:"The force that drove through him could not be stopped. The part of his mind that remained calm accepted this; if the necessity could not be denied,then the question was only whether it could be achieved with her consent.""The more she imagined the degradation of herfalse modestythe more she felt excited.false modesty????? isabelle's initial denial is "false modesty"?!?!?! i'm going to be sick. oh, and not only are the sex scenes misogynistic as fuck, they're also terribly written. like, honestly, they've practically turned me fully-fledged Gay."turning like a key in the split lock of her flesh"ummmm?? ouch?? not to mention how that also has misogynistic undertones tbh of being Unlocked by sex, can faulks Stop. how much do i have to pay to get him to Stopok now the rest. i was completely Bored for the entire novel, and isabelle and stephen's storyline is repeated in elizabeth and whatever the fuck her lover's name is, i can't remember. that is how much i care. now, supposedly this mirroring is supposed to Show The Interconnection Between The Past And Present And Future but to me it just seemed like faulks ran out of fucking ideas.elizabeth is honestly such an irritating character. "wow i just realised the war was bad!!!" fuck off liz.the only character i liked was that dude elizabeth works with who went to a restaurant, ordered solely wine, and lit a cigarette. Big Mood, and an Even Bigger Mood after reading this damn novel.oh yeah and all the women want children??? literally all of them??? excuse me but having children is not the be all and end all of womanhood.also: it seems the be all and end all of manhood is having sex. one of the soldiers is a virgin and he's fine with it but stephen is all "you are Incomplete you must go to a brothel" and the soldier doesn't want to but stephen makes him?? which is rape (AGAIN!!). oh, and at this brothel stephen pulls a knife out on a prostitute, and the prostitute.... holds his hand afterwards?????? fuck that shit bruv i don't care if he's a Damaged Soldier With Psychological Pain no man's gonna pull out a knife on me like that, the fuck?? many soldiers have ptsd and do not feel the urge to wave knives at prostitutes, fuck off faulks. thanks for perpetuating themental illness makes you violentmyth.tl dr; a literary trainwreck, -100000/10, would not recommend.