God, this is so sad. Of all the books I've read and reviewed (and loved a hell of a lot more), this is still the only one anyone bothers liking or commenting on. Haven't any of you read The Lord of the Rings?It would've been so cool if there was a shadowed hour-glass on every page, with the upper bulb being full on the first and then depleting as you near the end of the novel until it's empty on the last page. For once, the illustration on the cover coincides with the story. I still have no idea why there's an apple on the cover of Twilight.Okay, I think I should give a heads-up for people planning to read this book, whether you liked Twilight or not. It's not my favorite series, personally, but I thought, hey, since Bree was just a very small character in eclipse it might be kind of interesting to read her story. You know, actually, when I reached that part in Eclipse I was kindof hoping the Cullens would adopt Bree. It would've been nice to have a new character that would be most certain to make horrible mistakes (and not the bumbling idiotic mistakes Bella makes, but justified ones), but now I realise Meyer was just trying to stay true to the nature of the Volturi by killing off Bree.One of the only things she's managed to do right.I did not like this book.You'd think, by writing from a crazed newborn's perspective, Meyer would move away a bit from her usual writing style. All her protagonists so far (Wanderer, Bella, now Bree) have nothing between them I can deferentiate with. That is, they are all the same person. Meyer should work on character-originality. I mean come on, she's gonna bore us to death if she does this again. I'm not saying this book was superficial; Bree is smarter than Bella. But that's just it. She's smart. She's a more civilized newborn than the others. Sure, she can't control her thirst, but she can think for herself. I saw no difference between her adjusting to the vampire life and Bella when she was first blooded (er, sorry, that's a Darren Shan term I got used to), except that Bree wasn't feeling guilty about trying not to harm humans, of course. She's just smart about it. She and Diego. And that's another thing; she only spends like a day with the guy and already they're comfortable enough to kiss (well, he kissedher).Near the end we reach the scene when the Cullens are facing the newborns. That was a disappointment. Don't know if I'm spoiling or not, but the missing fight scene in Eclipse between the rest of the Cullens and the newborns is missing in this book too. That is, it happened, and Bree was there, but she took no part in it. She was looking for Diego. Stephenie Meyer seems to be afraid of making decent fight scenes. I mean, apparently the newborns fight alot amongst themselves, but the ripping off limbs thing can get pretty boring. As it is normal for Bree.True to its name, this book is pretty short, only around 170 pages or so. And maybe now I should just give you guys a summary so you can understand what I'm talking about*spoiler alert!**spoiler alert!*:Basically, the newborns live with Riley, who keeps them in order, and they are ignorant. They believe the old myths, about the sun burning them (which is the way it should be if you ask me, none of that sparkle stuff!) and the stake through the heart thing, and they know nothing about Victoria and only refer to her asher. Diego and Bree befriend each other while hiding out in a cave underwater waiting for the sun to go down, and they start questioning some of the things they've been told. Diego 'experiments', and finds out that the sun really doesn't burn at all. So um, they want to go tell Riley, in case he doesn't already know, and they overhear him and Victoria talking with the Volturi (whom they know nothing about); turns out Jane wants Victoria to defeat the Cullens, and gives her five days to prepare the newborns before she wipes them out. So Diego waits up for Riley and Bree goes back to the house, and Riley comes home without Diego, and he starts training the newborns, who even when the time finally comes to fight the Cullens are too disorganized to do anything (he feeds them this lie that once every four years the sun can't hurt them so that they'll go outside). And, well, you know the rest. Bree doesn't see the wolves because Jasper has her eyes and ears closed after she surrenders. She thinks they're another breed of vampire. Here is where you can really sympathize with Bree whilst comparing her to the Cullens because she really doesn't know anything about vampire life. And, as you know, she never will.And that's basically it. I mean, itwasinteresting, but good for an online short than an actual book. It wasn't worth my time. I got a massive headache when I'd finished.P.s: no more vampires for me! I'm sick of all the blood. Between Twilight Saga and the Saga of Darren Shan, I'd go with Darren Shan for true vampire lovers (I repeat, VAMPIRE lovers, not VAMPIRE ROMANCE lovers). I mean, atleast the vampires in there are not totally perfect in every way, and theycangrow older and be killed.P.p.s: Okay, okay, you guys can stop telling me what the book cover of Twilight signifies, as you might've noticed I've received a billion comments chastizing my ignorance. In any case, I don't think it's at all fair to Adam and Eve to compare Bella and Edward to them.