My friend is obsessed with Charles Manson, so much so that I decided I needed to understand what the hell was going on. I got this book for my trip to New Hampshire with my family to stimulate myself while sitting in a condo wishing I had nine dollars to go see Harry Potter alone due to my sorta sick crush on the character who plays Ron Weasley.I am learning about my new interest in terrible but insanely interrelated crimes committed by and against high-profile persons. I don't know what I am really learning from this. It makes me think about life, human weakness, pop culture, the mind of the mentally ill... Understanding the manipulation of the masses and blind ritualistic worship, power. How one person can have so much power over not only the people who are brainwashed/do to much acid/are actually insane and worship him or her, but also SO MANY OTHER PEOPLE. The motive behind the Manson murders is actually the most fascinating of all. I am not reading this book in any order. I just flip to a page and then flip to a picture and flip around again. Slowly I piece the puzzle together almost like I am trying to pretend I am investigating the case. It is written like a dramatic documentary and I can hear a man reading quotes aloud from the book to the images in my head. It is insanely detailed about the crime and the trials and I don't think anyone should read every word in this book unless they are completely obsessed with the murders. I can't stop thinking about reading the book. It is a good book to play Wikipedia click game. Wikipedia click game is: you type in one name and keep clicking on links without typing another word into the search and see where you end up. Last time I did that I ended up reading an entry about black energy. It is energy that doesn't exist or something and the constant expansion of the universe creating everything that exists, ever. Maybe I made that definition up. Little Wikipedia lies/possible truths are still fun. Also, it is fun to walk into a place and see the TV playing ET which happens to be featuring a 6 minute descriptive clip about Anna Nicole's child that night and walk by the TV while carrying "Helter Skelter" saying "why do they do this to me, why is this on TV" and then go out and buy a magazine spread on Keira Knightly. Maybe that will make sense if you read the book. I will never actually finish this book even if I read it all. THE TV MADE ME DO IT.the end.