It is difficult for me to coherently and succinctly express my overwhelming hatred for this book - not just dislike, but absolute, overpoweringdisgust- but the sheer thought that people continue to naively read this and somehow leave with the impression they had just completed a masterpiece was too haunting, too shocking for me to continue sitting passively.To readHouse of Leavesis to witness a microcosm of the downfall of society: any semblance of truth and meaning is abandoned and replaced with monotonous, faux-intellectual nonsense; pathetic attempts at literary pyrotechnics become no more impressive than watching one's reflection in a funhouse mirror.The plot, at first glance, seems intriguing: a family moves into a house only to discover a room that defies all rules of logic; it seems to expand infinitely, and untold horrors lie within. This in itself could be a fascinating book - not necessarily a literary masterpiece, but at least an entertaining diversion.Instead of taking a straightforward approach, however, Danielewski chooses to tell the story in a dry, academic style, in which the aforementioned plot appears in a Blair Witch-esque film and a long essay is written about it, then wrap that underwhelming story in not one, buttwosuperfluous narratives. The opening narrative is the tale of Johnny Truant, a misanthrope who lives a rather unremarkable life and exists mostly to try and convince you of the novel's terrifying qualities: he goes on and on about how encountering the essay altered his life forever. In the meantime he does drugs and has sexual experiences that are probably supposed to come off as shocking and provocative, but are instead sort of pathetic - his descriptions of some woman's deft hands entering his anus and stimulating his prostate are laughable, not only due to the over-the-top writing but also to show how ultimately bland Danielewski is in what he perceives to be edgy or different.All the different narratives exist in footnotes, and oftentimes Danielewski adds wholly unnecessary footnotes purely to engage in some self-indulgent "trick", akin to a kindergartener doing a cartwheel: the first letter of each footnote will spell out his name, the last letter of each footnote will spell out his name, etc. They are in no way integral to the plot and serve more as some disturbing exhibitionist trick to show how clever he is rather than to perform a legitimate literary function.The pages on which Danielewski tries to "experiment" with typographic formatting really prove nothing new whatsoever; his attempts at innovation were probably more likely a sad scheme at attempting to convince naive readers to his brilliance. There is nothing in the novel that has not been touched upon before in works like William Gass'sThe Tunneland even Sterne'sTristam Shandy. The section in the middle of the novel during which the pages are segmented in four look intriguing until it becomes clear that two of those segments are dedicated to a) a list of documentaries that adds nothing to the novel and b) a list of directors of aforementioned documentaries that adds nothing to novel... except for, of course, another chance for Danielewski to show us how great he is at spelling his name. On other pages he only includes a few words per page or cramps the text into a corner in order to create a sense of agoraphobia or claustrophobia, but it serves no real purpose. A true good writer would be able to weave in these experimental elements while maintaining an actual ability to write well, but here, Danielewski leans on them entirely. Instead of enhancing his points, they are his sole means of achieving what he wants to say. What Danielewski has created is no literary masterpiece, merely a laughable attempt at disguising his dry and unexciting writing into something else entirely, which has been contorted beyond any enjoyable means by its creator's own self-indulgence.I'll conclude on a lighter note: a good novel should have intercourse with its reader. Especially in a lengthy novel, like this one, authors should be aware that readers are making long term relationship with their novels, and should be reassured that this long term relationship is a worthy one. Had Danielewski executedHouse of Leavesproperly, it would have been a nice quickie - not necessarily memorable by any means, but at least enjoyable. By taking the approach he did, Danielewski created what could be the most unpleasant long term relationship imaginable. This novel never has the decency to suck you in, enrapture you - it would be as though a lover's only sexual contact with you were to sit in front of you and masturbate while forbidding you to do anything similar, then, right before finishing, zipping up and declaring he wasn't in the mood. That's what this novel is: a disturbing masturbatory narcissistic ode to one's reflection without any meaning or resolution, without anything worth saying. I have witnessed people praising this novel as the future of literature, as the next step of the evolution of the novel. The thought of a hack writer like Danielewski receiving such praise fills me with an unshakable nausea, and I have - I kid you not - prayed that this novels cult following is actually an elaborate inside joke meant only to drive those not "in" on it - like myself - insane. But if those who praise this novel are serious, this will be the death of art. This will be the death of truth and meaning. If people legitimately believe this is where literature is going? If people believe the "innovations" present here are worth their time, that a daring writer need do nothing more than find a creative way to spell his name, to obfuscate his narrative beyond recognition and do so in such a manner that drains it of any meaning or capability to be enjoyed?I fear for the future of humanity.