Taking a quick glance through reviews of this book, they seem to have two things in common. One, they all start with a reference to the book's size. And two, they all remark about the comparisons to The Stand.And now mine is no different.Holy SHIT, this was a long ass book... but it doesn't at all compare to The Stand, in my opinion.Was it good? Yeah, good, but for a book this ambitious and huge, I expect more than just good. Part of that is that I think I'd have appreciated it a lot more had I read it before reading The Stand, because I just couldn't quite manage to not compare them, and that did not end up favoring Swan Song. The characters, the plot, the 'characters connected by dreams or visions' thing, the Walkin' Dude... King did it first, and better. Sorry to all the McCammon fans out there... but it's true.I liked the story enough to finish it, but for so very freaking much of it, it felt like nothing was happening. If there's going to be a huge amount of time in between little pockets of tension and excitement, then that time should be spent making me fall in love with the characters. It should be spent making me dread the possibility of their untimely demise. Or it should be spent making me feel like I'm really living in a nuclear winter. (And shit, that wouldn't even be hard, considering this winter has been like Snowpocalypse. So. Tired. Of. Winter. *sob*)What that time should not be used for is repetitive scenes only included in the book to show us Swan's ability... which we had learned about and understood from like... page two. How many times do I need to be shown that Swan "holds life inside her"? Because going through it every time we hop back over to a Swan chapter felt like maybe one or two times too many. Although, maybe it wasn't me that McCammon was trying to fill in... maybe it was Swan herself. Not exactly the brightest bulb there, considering how long it took her to figure out that she'd be key in healing the damage that humanity brought upon itself.To be perfectly honest, I didn't really care about any of these characters except Josh, and I'm not sure if that's due to the book, or the reading (I loved the way the reader did his voice), or because I just love big cuddly bearlike men, or even that I just needed SOMEONE to like in this book. Maybe a little bit of all of those. But the rest of the characters I disliked in varying degrees.Evil Dude was Evil. *shrug* What more is there to say?Sister felt... wooden to me. It was only rarely that she displayed any personality at all, and I just couldn't warm up to her. Besides finding and carrying the glass-a-ma-jig, I am still trying to figure out what her role was in the book.Swan... Well, I already talked about her.Roland should die in a fire and then be reincarnated only to die in a fire and be reincarnated only to die in a fire again... and so on, forever.Macklin was just crazy and I kinda felt bad for him, but he was piece of shit crazy, not sympathetic human crazy, so he can die in Roland's fire too. He doesn't have to be reincarnated more than... oh, two or three times.El Presidente. You know, I kinda felt bad for him. In the beginning when we meet him, you can tell he's not prepared for what's happening, he's shit scared of the events that are outside of his control, and he's just trying to cope. But then, all that sympathy that I had for him just evaporated toward the end. Crazy or not... FUCK HIM, man. Who gets to decide to do THAT? Why is that even a thing that would ever, EVER, EVEREVEREVER be developed and actually put in place? Shameful and disgusting. The mere concept of... THAT is worse to me than anything else in this book. By far. He should have died in the fire.However, as much as I loathed El Pres at the end, he's the only character that I felt actually wrestled with their humanity at all. He wasn't a "Good" character or an "Evil" character. He was flawed and conflicted and just doing what he thought was right for the good of all. Still should have died in a fire though.Coming back to the concept of Good and Evil, I have to say that there was never even a hint of a flicker of gray in any of these characters, with the exception I mentioned above. They were either all GOOD, or all EVIL. The chasm between the two would have to be traveled by goat, three mules, and a barge, and you better pack a lunch because it's a fucking hike to the other side. The fact that McCammon THEN needed to literally show people's "true faces", as if we were unclear which side they were on, was again, overkill. All the GOOD people are so beautiful, and all the EVIL people are hideously deformed. Because that's original.One last thing before I wrap this up. I really expected the glass-a-ma-jig to have a vital purpose in the book, and I was very disappointed to learn that I was mistaken in this, especially after ALLLLLLL of the build-up I trudged through, including the 10 minute long (at 3x speed!) 'crowning' scene. For the thing to be relegated to be nothing more than a Rosetta Stone after all of that kind of makes me incredibly angry.So, so very mad. Oooh! ...wonder what this big red button does...?