I stopped reading this collection after the fifth story "The Call of Cthulhu." The first two stories--"The Outsider" and "The Music of Erich Zann"--were actually pretty good, if standard genre structure. "The Outsider" in particular read like The Twilight Zone's episode "Eye of the Beholder" from the point of view of a demon.However, once I got to the third story "The Rats in the Wall," I had a faintly sickening feeling I wasn't going to finish the book.As many reviewers here have noted Lovecraft's style is overwrought, overwritten, and, in a word, boring. Each story is the same structure: first person protagonist with absolutely no emotional characteristic comes across a house or story with mysterious and possibly supernatural quality. The atmosphere and architecture of the area is described to a nauseating degree, with enough Anglophilic density to make Joseph F'ing Conrad want to scream. (The Conrad reference is deliberate.)And then there's the overt racism. The beginning was with "Rats in the Wall" where his cat is casually named "N------man," along with a handful of debasing references to African-Americans. Once I finished that story, I researched a little about Lovecraft, and discovered that he was overtly racist and xenophobic in his lifetime and didn't try to hide it. I thought maybe this was the only story where it was blatantly apparent, and since a number of sci-fi and fantasy authors I admire praised his work (Gaiman, King, and, although not sci-fi, definitely fantastical, Jorge Luis Borges) I figured I'd keep reading, while knowing this information in the back of my head."The Call of Cthulhu" however is even worse than "Rats." Lovecraft can barely conceal his antipathy and bigotry in the story. And with that, I was done.I can see why he is considered influential. He definitely creates an imaginative world where supernatural and demonic entities are facts of everyday life. And his story ideas are interesting. But, like my reactions when I readHeart of Darknessa few years ago, I don't understand why people were not able to see past both Conrad's and Lovecraft's colonial, xenophobic beliefs. And maybe I'm reading this with a 21st century outlook, but I don't think I am. There were probably writers then who shared their sentiments who didn't include it in their writings. There are sci-fi authors of today who I can read their works and look past their odious personal beliefs (Heinlein, Orson Scott Card).Life is too short to read books you aren't enjoying.