I didn't like this book at all. The writing itself was OK, aside from a few "telling not showing" episodes, and an occasional duplication of the same phrase (ie, "roll in the sack"), but in general it is easy to see why his books are often bestsellers among people who like this sort of thing - but I didn't identify with, or even like, the characters.I took the book out of a box in my department on campus. When people retire or leave the job for another reason, often when the office is cleaned out some of the books wind up in the common area, free for the taking. I always go through them, and take whatever interests me. Usually they are academic books, or at least education-related, such as something by Kozol. But last time there were quite a few fairly recent popular novels. I took the Sparks book because I'd seen (and liked) The Notebook, and have read good reviews of his writing.This has nothing to do with my frustration with the book, but it's pretty hard to believe that a man wrote this book, or for that matter, wrote The Notebook. I suppose that is kind of a sexist remark, I mean why can't a man write a romantic story?, but they are not simply romantic, they are the ultimate "chick lit" or "chick flick." (I hate those terms, and usually I am not thrilled with that genre either, at least not as done by a contemporary author. [Bronte, Austen, etc. are fine.] I also dislike movies such as "You've Got Mail" and "Sleepless in Seattle" so I am probably not the best audience for Sparks' books.)Anyway, about halfway through this book I wanted to reach into the pages and slap the main character because she is so whiny and "poor me," and then slap her love interest just for good measure. Not that he doesn't deserve a good slap for his own tiresome nature. It seems the reader is supposed to view him as heroic? I didn't think so; I thought he was a glory hog. I kept hoping something really bad would happen to one of the characters and the book would wind up surprising me and being worth the effort! I don't know if The Notebook read like this, maybe. But even if it did, the looking back through Altzheimer's Disease theme made the story much more charming. With this book I was so annoyed that the so-called hardships these two characters have faced are either 1) self-inflicted, 2) not all that difficult, yet they act like such martyrs or 3) sad, but get over it already!One other thing that bothered me is the issue of the little boy. Many of the choices the main female character makes struck me as harmful. And the things they ate, because they didn't have a lot of money, would have made her fat, not thin. Plus that sort of diet would not have helped the son's learning disabilities. If his mother was supposed to be making such sacrifices for him, and had researched his disorder so much, you'd think that would have been a no brainer. Hey, but why be concerned - a man swoops in and magically the kid improves!In the end, something bad does happen - but unfortunately, it was not to one of the main characters.It's too bad this was the first book of his that I read, since it is possible the others are better, and now I am turned off. But at least I know why I found it in a box for free!