"The Mysterious Benedict Society" owes a large debt to Lemony Snicket's Series of Unfortunate Events. It is written in the same Dickens-meets-Roald-Dahl style (although it does emphasize Dahl's whimsy over Dickens' occasional bleakness). It features an oddball cast with a broad spectrum of eccentricities and unique physical features. The plot even centers around a group of kids from orphanages attempting to foil the dastardly plans of a villain who seeks to exploit them in his mad quest for domination.There are good qualities to be found. The first hundred pages or so are very charming, managing to capture the better aspects of its inspirations with ease. Stewart is certainly a capable writer with a great imagination and sense of wit.But once the titular group has been established and sets off on its first mission things begin to go downhill at an alarming rate. First, things start to get a little too quirky (The villain's dastardly plot for world domination iswhatnow? Wait,anotherbizarre character/situation/setting for our intrepid heroes to contend with?). Second, said quirks become limiting and mildly irritating (could Constancepleasestop grumbling for just a second? And while the use of narcolepsy is only slightly amusing at first it gets tiring when both the group's benefactorandthe villain keep passing out at key moments. Stewart really should have re-thought that as a character trait). Third, you realize that the book is overly long and overly complex. Yet somehow, despite the myriad twists, turns, and complications, the M.B.S. is remarkably capable of making incredible logical leaps to figure out what is going on. For crying out loud, how long is this charade going to get dragged out, anyway? Then comes the hot mess of an ending. I don't want to spoil anything for those who intend to read this book, so let's just say that the realizations come a little too easily, the escapes are a touch too clean, and the happy endings aren't tacked on so much as beaten in with a sledgehammer. Yet Stewart must also have realized that if he intends this book to become a series he can't tie everything uptooneatly, so naturally things are open-ended enough to allow for a sequel. Which is now available in bookstores everywhere ...I, for one, won't be picking it up.