I can honestly say that this is one of the worst novels I've ever read. John Irving's writing was terrible and his rambling, seemingly unedited style was the death ofA Prayer for Owen Meany. The novel is about two boys growing up as best friends in New Hampshire in the '50s and '60s. One boy is John, the narrator, who is telling the story looking back from the 1980s. The other boy is Owen Meany, whose small size, high-pitched voice, and uncanny religious fervor make him an outsider. Owen, as John discovers, believes he is God's instrument and has all these abnormalities so he can carry out the mission God has for him.The plot at its core wasn't terrible and I was curious to see how Owen's visions of the future and his religious conviction panned out. Irving is good at foreshadowing and there was definitely humor in the novel, especially in the character of Grandmother Wheelwright, John's stubborn grandmother. But I can honestly say that I didn't care for either John or Owen and to have both of the main characters be unlikable was a mistake. Irving has a tendency to rant. John in the 1980s spends pages and pages ranting about the Iran-Contra affair, president Reagan's shortcomings, and the Vietnam War. These rants do nothing to move the story along and are basically just a heavy-winded, often redundant criticism of American politics. Owen is always so holier-than-thou while being such a flawed character himself that I found him to be a frustrating know-it-all bordering on the insane. I couldn't see why John and Owen were friends, since Owen acts so superior to John and they have little in common.What really got to me was this novel's blatant sexism. Irving would go out of his way to make it clear that the only purpose of the female characters in this novel was to be sexual objects (unless they were over sixty, like Grandmother Wheelwright). Irving would spend paragraphs ranting about each female characters breasts and would go out of his way to make sexual references about the women in the story. There were many unnecessary crude remarks about women, such as a description of how a twelve-year-old girl looked in her dress without underwear, a stripper picking up an orange with her vagina, and John going on for paragraphs about his own mother's breasts. These descriptions were offensive and demeaning to women and Irving certainly could have left them out.A Prayer for Owen Meanycould have been considerably shorter if Irving had had a decent editor to considerably cut back his ramblings. As it was the novel was boring and pointless. The sexism disgusted me and was wholly unnecessary. I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone. Reading it is a colossal waste of time.