Let's play a guessing game.Ready?Is it a....fairy?No.Is it a...vampire?No.Is it a....werewolf?NO.Is it a... nnoying?YES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!On page 205 of "Born at Midnight," the (boring, flat, typical) main character, Kylie, is in the same position she was in on page 50. I meanexactsame position. She's at a summer camp for supernatural creatures. Her shrink recommended it to her mom because the shrink is half fairy and can recognize the signs of supernatural gifts.OK.SO. WhatisKylie, you may ask?Well, not one really knows. No one really wants to tell her, either- or the reader for that matter. Expecting us to salivate over the possibilities, the author is playing "keep away" with something that NO ONE REALLY CARES ABOUT ANYWAY.Here is an actual conversation from the bookbetween Kylie and her mentor- an irritating woman named "Holiday" who is supposed to come off as intelligent, but gives vague, unimpressionable answers that really just annoy the **** out of me.Kylie: But, do we know- I mean, if Iamone of you, that I'm not like a vampire of a werewolf?"Holiday: "I'm guessing if you were of that species, we would have seen some of the normal characteristics that are linked to them."Kylie: But you don't think I'm a vampire or werewolf, right?Holiday: "I think that's unlikely."Kylie: So, assuming I'm not human, I'm also not a fairy?"Holiday: "I didn't say that."Kylie: "Is being a ghost whisper a common gift for elves?"Holiday: "Generally... but it's not unheard of for others to have that ability, as well."Kylie: "So, what else could I be?"ARE WE SUPPOSED TO BEG? BECAUSE FRANKLY, I'M NOT THAT INTERESTED ANYMORE.If you enjoy reading words like "holy cow," "bejeebies," "mo fo," - you would enjoy this book. If you enjoy trudging through 200+ pages (half the book) and reading the SAME words you read on page 1, over and over and- you guessed it!- over again, you would enjoy this book.The author comes across as a 70 year-old woman (which she is, pretty much) who wants to be "hip" and use "teenage" language. Sorry, "c.c hunter," but it isn't cool to spell your name in lower case letters. It's also uncool to use words like "mo fo" and "dad gone-it," and "gosh darn-it." I could have also done without the pregnancy theme that came across as a rant to teenagers to stop having sex. Who does she think she's preaching to? This is supposed to be entertainment, and instead it felt like an intensely difficult task. Like math homework. Seriously.Goodbye "c.c hunter." I won't be reading anything you write. Ever.