A couple of years ago I went with my friends to see the movieSinister; it had become sort of a tradition of ours to go out all together maybe once a month and see whatever shitty scary movie was playing at the cinema. We've seen some terrible ones and some surprisingly good ones, and I think the worst was probablySinister. Towards the end, as scary movies often do, it got ridiculous, and we were screaming with laughter at the little kids in the hallway and the bad mask and the CGI and...I'm crying thinking about it.My friend leans over to me at this point and whispers, "There's no redeeming this," and I laughed so hard I nearly shit my pants. And it speaks beautifully of my experience with this book: there's no redeeming it, not even if it makes you laugh, which it probably won't.Because there's nothing funny about it, is there? There's nothing funny about a heroine who refers to another character as a "screw toy". How is that entertainment? How is anybody entertained by that sort of ugly, problematic, misogynistic language? Do you think it's okay to call another woman a "screw toy"? Do you really?I can't even comment on the fantasy elements of this book. They were background to me. I just felt like I was being clobbered over the head, over and over and over again, by this grotesque sexist rhetoric. Apparently our heroine is a good girl because she's a virgin and her best friend "gave it away" so she deserves what she gets. Of course, Best Friend gets a pregnancy scare and she deeply regrets sex because it *changed her, oh, no!*.Kylie also doesn't drink, which means she's an extra 'good girl'. So let's break this down (I wish I could make tables on GR).Kylie: doesn't drink, virgin, white, straight, cisgender. Affluent.Best Friend (I can't even remember her name): drinks, not a virgin, white, straight, cisgender, affluent.The difference between them is their sexual status and their attitudes to alcohol. So let's look at the outcomes:Kylie: Magical Chosen One. Falls in love with a sexy magical creature who *respects her boundaries*. In fact, all the boys are in love with her, but none of them touch her.Best Friend: Has a pregnancy scare. Cries over her virginity. Mistreated by boys. Single.It's a perfect Madonna/Whore dichotomy. Kylie is our Madonna, and because of her sexual status and her rejecting alcohol, boys flock to her, but they're "good boys" who will never ever have sex with her and who'll whisper sweet nothings in her ear. They'll say things like "I'm sorry I'm so fucked up" and when she cries they'll kiss away her tears and it'll be so beautiful.Best Friend is the Whore - the one who "gave it away". Her sexual status and her attitudes to alcohol mean that she hasn't got a hope of being wanted by any boy who'll treat her kindly. Her sex wrecked her, thus she's deserving of Kylie's disgust. In fact, there's an aura of disgust and "well, that's what happens!" surrounding Best Friend.But it's made clear that Kylie warned Best Friend not to "give it away". And what did Best Friend do? She did it! Well, Kylie told her so!It's not necessarily about the act of sex itself; it's about blame. Kylie is innocent, because she's a virgin. She without sin will cast the first stone - and the stone will hit Best Friend. There's a very, very strong undercurrent of "I told you so!" particularly because of the pregnancy scare. But that blame goes far beyond teenage pregnancy - the vast majority of which is caused, quite ironically, by ignorance towards sex, which this book strongly promotes - and it spills into rape culture. That's what slut-shaming is all about."I told you so!" everyone will say, if a boy at a party or at college or in a club rapes Best Friend. Everyone will say "it's a shame" but there's always a footnote of "...but shewasdrinking" or "to be fair, she's not exactly a virgin". That's what it comes down to. The dichotomy is not necessarily about some flippant consensual sex someone had, but about what our attitudes would be toward rape. If someone rapes Kylie, then the world drowns in tears for the loss of "innocence" (alas, this does not save Kylie from being dubbed "broken" or from having some male character charge off to seek revenge for her, thus advancing his own character development; I can't even count how many female character's rapes have existed only to advance the character development of a man). But if someone rapes Best Friend, we've already established a culture of blame around her. Her skirt was too short, or she was drunk, or let's be honest, I mean, she was always a reckless girl, wasn't she?Rape, blame and worth are all tied up in the sexism that this book screams like a foghorn. The women in this book exist on a staircase of worth - virginal Kylie stands on the top step, and the partying girls are clustered at the very bottom. It's like XVI, where the Best Friend of that book was raped and murdered, and the grandmother or whatever says, "Well, she always wore such a short skirt"."Worth" is not a scale with which to measure human beings. "Worth" does not exist, because worth is not part of the equation. At no point should any human being's "worth" even be debated, because no body deserves to be hurt or shamed any more than any other. This is what makes "screw toy" so unbelievably problematic; that one should label another human being as if they weren't one. "Screw toy" is pure dehumanization. Dehumanization is the root of all violence, be it verbal, physical or sexual.This book deserves no stars. It makes me feel physically sick to think about it. To think that it got a higher rating thanMockingjay, which, although quite a letdown, tackled incredibly important themes such as war, dehumanization, slavery, PTSD, class and poverty. EvenUnwind, which so deftly discussed the fault in human "worth", the ways in which our social system fails our youth, generation gaps, and the horrific outcomes of forced pregnancy, is only .04 of a star higher than this book. For fuck's sake, why?People will like what they like. Books are there to be enjoyed. But this book is a manifesto of misogyny and hatred. This book is appalling bad.I was going to lighten the mood with an Adore Delano GIF, but I don't want to associate her and the joy she brings me with this book in any way. So this is it: a sombre wall of text.FIN