Born at Midnight, a summary:KYLIE: OMG, my life totallysucks(goes to party with alcohol involved)PARENTS: For that, we're sending you away to a summer camp for troubled teenagers.KYLIE: Like, could this get worse?KYLIE'S FRIEND SARAH: OMG, pregnancy scare!KYLIE: I'm, like, so stressed out here. All the kids on the bus with me are, like, Goth freaks. Don't they, like, know that blue is the new black? (actual line from the book)CAMP DIRECTOR HOLIDAY: Welcome everyone.KYLIE: I'm not a troubled teen!HOLIDAY: So you bought that story, huh? Ha ha, sucker. This isn't a camp for troubled teens, this is a camp forsupernaturals.KYLIE: Like, no way.HOLIDAY: Way.KYLIE: I sooo don't believe you.HOLIDAY: Whatevs. Perry, demonstrate. Turn into a platypus for me.PERRY: (turns into platypus)KYLIE: !!!HOLIDAY: And if you're here, that means that you're one of us.OTHER CAMPERS: (chanting) one of us, one of us...KYLIE: Like, I still don't believe you.HOLIDAY: Well, us supernaturals have the ability to read each other's mind, and according to our mind readings on you, you are a supernatural. Or you have a brain tumor.KYLIE: Like, no way. I'll take the tumor. (thinks about it) Actually, on second thoughts... Like, I dunno. I'm, like, super conflicted!(walks back to cabin)MIRANDA AND DELLA: Hi, we're your roomies. We lurve you just by looking at you, but we hate each other.MIRANDA: Bloodsucker.Della: Witch.(Stick out tongues at each other)KYLIE: I. am. not. a. supernatural.(Goes back to sulking)DEREK: Hi, I'm a very attractive guy who is attracted to you.KYLIE: I'm still not a supernatural, but you're way hot. But, like, my last boyfriend totally broke my heart, so the kiss I'm about to give you is a tentative one.(They make out)KYLIE: Ugh, I can't do this right now. Like, gimme some space.DEREK: 'Kay.LUCAS: Hi, I'm a very attractive guy who is attracted to you.KYLIE: I'm still not a supernatural, and that Derek sure seems yummy, but like, so do you. I don't know that I should be doing this...(They make out)KYLIE: Like, I'm not ready for a relationship right now. And also, like, no way am I a supernatural. Actually I might be. Actually, probably not. Actually...(Goes back to cabin to think)TREY: Hi, I'm your very attractive ex-boyfriend who is attracted to you. Wanna make out.KYLIE: (aside) hebroke my heart. (to TREY) Sounds good.(They make out)KYLIE: Why did we break up again?TREY: BTW, I'm only here for sex.KYLIE: ARG!! I can't believe you tried to pull that again. Like no. Get out.(exit TREY)DEREK and LUCAS: So who's it gonna be?KYLIE: I... don't... know!!! Just lemme think, okay???DEREK and LUCAS: 'KayKYLIE: What if I'm a supernatural?This is Born at Midnight in a nutshell. You might be thinking that that doesn't sound like much of a plot. Or that that's an awful lot of guys for one book. Or that Kylie sounds, like, super annoying. Or that the dialogue is totally unrealistic and no one, teenager or otherwise, really talks like that.If you're thinking that, you're absolutely correct. So many things are wrong with this book that it becomes almost comical, and it might have been funny if I hadn't been wasting hours of my life reading this.The first of many problems is Kylie. The narrative is from third person, and seems to be modeled after Valley Girl stereotypes a la Clueless's Cher. But Cher was created as an extreme, a parody of a caricature in a chick flick. Kylie is supposed to lead us through a story, and if a fantasy starts out with us doubting the plausibility of a normal human character, you know trouble lies ahead.Along with sounding exaggeratedly false and unrealistic, Kylie is also a huge pain in the rear. She's one of those 'sexy and I know it' girls who I just can't relate to, and she's very self-focused, as well as judgmental about everyone else around her. She's quick to label the kids at her camp as freaks because they have multiple piercings or colorful hair. The kids at my high school, "popular" crowd included, often have nose/cartilage piercings and/or colored hair, and yes, even in the twenty-first century, there's still a crowd that dresses in all black. It could just be where I live, but I'm pretty sure it's not that uncommon, especially among teenagers. Kylie acts like she's never been exposed to the world before.The other characters, particularly Derek and Lucas, were just as unbelievable. Derek's the kind, sweet, understanding love interest and Lucas is the egotistical player, but they're practically interchangeable. Kylie gets all hot and bothered whenever one of them is in a twenty feet radius of her, and even though she's not ready for a relationship or sex or anything, she can't seem to stop herself from making out with one of them every time they're in her line of vision (BTW, the writing for the make out scenes was borderline ridiculous. At one point CC Hunter was describing the hardness of Kylie's nipples. Too much information, bro.). Derek and Lucas were essentially just boy toys, there to kiss her or comfort her when she needed it, but they didn't really contribute to the plot or story.Not that there was much to contribute to. Born at Midnight is basically four hundred pages of infodumping about supernaturals and Kylie moaning and groaning about boy problems, home problems and identity problems. Towards the end, there's the semblance of a climax, but by that point I had started skimming and none of it made a lick of sense.Remember that book about kids sent to a summer camp for demigods? The one that blossomed into a five-book series full of humor and fabulous adventure? Well, Born at Midnight is no Percy Jackson. Camp Half Blood is almost as cool as Hogwarts, but Shadow Falls is flat and boring. There's no archery, no centaurs, no awesome cabins or Capture the Flags. The only camp activities ever described were campfires and what was essentially a dating service, where guys have to draw a girl's name and talk to her for an hour.Really? It's just a ploy for Kylie to talk to Derek/Lucas. My only exposure to summer camps have been at the local Christian camp, where guys and girls arenotencouraged to go hang out alone together, but maybe this is acceptable at other camps. But between the dating services and the lax-if-existent rules about guys in girls cabins, the camp seemed pretty unrealistic to me.Really, the only reason it's a camp is because the author wanted to get the parents out of the way and not have her characters deal with school. Other than that, Shadow Falls has no real place in the book, and it fell flat as anything more than a plot device for getting a bunch of supernaturals together.I dunno... Honestly, I was hoping for something fun and adventurous, like the Percy Jackson books, but what I got was four hundred pages of failure sealed with a rather lovely purple cover. This is one of the weakest paranormal books I've read in a while, and... that's really sad, considering it's coming in last to the likes of Hush, Hush and Fallen. Don't be fooled by the cover or the blurb; look at it, pick it up, sigh a little and then set it gently back down on the shelf. And then go reread the Percy Jackson or Harry Potter books. Even if it's your third or fourth or eighty-second time through the series, they're still much more satisfying than Born at Midnight.