Kylie Galen has had a lot of crap tossed in her lap lately. Her parents are getting a divorce for who the heck knows why. Her boyfriend broke up with her because she wouldn't put out. And her grandmother died because . . . well, older people do that. But now, Kylie's acquired a stalker and she hasn't a clue what he wants or how to get rid of him . . . and she really wants to get rid of him because apparently she's the only one who sees him. Thinking she may be losing it, her parents send her off to see a psychologist who gets Kylie sent to Shadow Falls Camp. Kylie and her parents think it's a camp for troubled teens.They thought wrong.Kylie's surrounded by vampires, werewolves, fairies, witches and shapeshifters. And if she believes what they tell her, she's one of them. They're just not sure exactly how she fits in. As Kylie struggles to cope with the realization that these creatures even exist, and the fact that she might not be human, she's got two hot guys, a werewolf and a half-fairy vying for her attention. And they can just keep vying. Kylie's determined that before she lets her heart loose on love, she needs to unearth the truth. What does the ghost want? Who can and can't she trust? And most of all . . . What is she?This is the summary I read when I first saw this book. Judging from the tone of the passage (you can tell I had English today), you'd think this book would be snarky, narcissistic and a buttload of fun.Sadly, that's not the case.By the time I got to page 100, I really didn't care whether or not the MC was dead or not. For one, it's written in third-person (a pet-peeve of mine, especially when having done otherwise would highly benefit the book). This book is the worst possible book ever to have been written in third person.I've been visiting CC Hunter's website since reading this book, and I'm actually really excited for the next installments in the series, even though this one was on the short side of FAIL.[image error]Yeah. That's what I thought. Fail.