GREAT STORY, NOT-SO-GREAT BOOK!This took me THREE MONTHS to finish!!! I did read other books in the meantime, but believe me, I wouldn't have dragged my feet on this one if the storytelling hadn't been so TERRIBLY AWFUL!Examples of STORIES told particularly badly ....a) The drama teacher Miss Gladys and the Dominicsb) The romance between Achak and Tabithac) Life at Kakumad) The story of Maria, the girl who called him Sleepere) The walk from Pinyudo to Kakumaf) The play times with Achak and the Royal Girls of Pinyudog) Achak's trip to the hospitalh) Achak's job at the fitness clubi) Achak's attempts to go to college in Americaj) The night when the Sudanese were invited to the basketball gameAND MANY MORE .... Some of the above should have been interesting stories, but they were written in such a matter-of-fact style, I could barely bring myself to read each line on the page. It was like forcing myself to read engineering textbooks!!!! OHHHHHH!Another thing ... this is supposed to be a fictional autobiography. It's not a REAL autobiography, because if it were, it would be all about Dave Eggers. NO, NO, it's all about Valentino Achak Deng. OK, so I get it ... Dave Eggers is PRETENDING to be Achak, and writing it just the way he thinks Achak would write it. And this (in part) is what makes it fictional. OK, FINE. Now the narrator of the autobiography (or, the fictional entity that Dave Eggers was conjuring up when he was pretending to be Achak) ... maybe he's the kind of guy who refuses to go on and on about his philosphical beliefs. Well, fine. But as a READER wanting to hear the story of Valentino Achak Deng, I want to know about that stuff. And we get practically nothing!For example, from reading the book, I would think this is the autobiography of an atheist. But our fictional narrator is Catholic. I know this because of occasional instances of praying, various run-ins with priests, and occasional times when God is mentioned. But I find it really annoying that the central character never seems to care enough about spirituality to discuss it.The lack of discussion about the narrator's beliefs extends to other areas besides just religion ... I wish he had discussed his motivation and ambitions that led him to be in charge at so many stages in his life, and his political views about the government of Sudan, hopes for peace, and so much more.Maybe the real VAD wouldn't have discussed philosophical matters in such a public forum as a book, and maybe that's why Dave Eggers, in pretending to be Achak, left these kinds of discussion out. I don't know. But I wish the real VAD would come out and write his autobiography so I could find out. From the web site valentinoachakdeng.org, I can see the great work Achak is doing to lift up the people of Sudan. He seems like a great man. And you know what, I do not get that impression from this book. Honestly, I think the real VAD could do a much better job of writing his autobiography than Dave Eggers did of pretending to be him.This fictionalized autobiography device simply DID NOT WORK.Now, to be fair (and this is why the book gets 2 stars for "it was ok" instead of 1), there were a few parts of the book that I enjoyed.BITS OF PLOT TOLD RATHER WELL ...a) The portrait of Achak's life in southern Sudan before the fighting began, where his prosperous father owned a shop and had many wives; and there were various religions (Catholic, Muslim, and African/pagan/something?) intermingling somewhat peacefully; where he was loved by his mother in the yellow dress, played with William K and Moses, and would try to spy on Amath and her sistersb) Achak's first visit at Phil and Stacy's house, when a bunch of other Sudanese came in for dinner uninvited, and the ensuing story of Achak's friendship with Phil's familyc) Achak's running escape, as a 6-year-old boy, from the fightingd) The story of William K walking with Achake) Moses' story about being captured and turned into a slavef) The story told by the old man who was brought by the SPLA to speak to the Kakuma refugees about being the lone survivor of an attack on all the chiefs of the local tribesg) The friendship between Achak and Noriyakih) The story of a woman who comes to Achak's adopted family's home in Kakuma with news for Achak regarding his biological familyi) Achak's experiences on the drama group's trip to Nairobi when he gets to stay with Mike and Grace and go to the shopping mall with Tabithaj) The last week of Achak's time in Kakuma, and his weeks spent in Goal waiting for a plane to take him to America.This may seem like a lot, but bear in mind, this book is 535 pages, and some of these plotlines above only lasted a few pages.Looking back, it seems that the first 100 or so pages were good, and the last 100 pages were good. It was the part in the middle that made me want to tear my toe nails out.Hmmmm ... maybe those 335 pages in the middle are THE WHAT.Oooooooooooooooooh!