Every Filipino who loves his country must read this book.Reason: On April 13, 2012, North Korea's long-range rocket launched, failed.Reutersis now saying that, embarrassed by rocket crash, North Korea may now be thinking of trying nuclear test.Check the path and the trajectory plan of that failed rocket launch:Do you see that tail-end of the yellow line? That's Luzon, the biggest island in the Philippines. That's where Manila is. That's where I live!But why should we read this book?Here's why:He reads this book!Seriously, I am one of the moderators ofThe Filipino Grouphere in Goodreads. This book,Jellicoe Roadby an Australian novelist, Melina Marchetta is our book of the month and we will have our face-to-face book discussion on Saturday. As a moderator and one of the senior members of the group, some members ask me what I think of the book. Even if they don't say or admit it, my views influence some of them. At this point, I guess my job is to encourage them to read the book and join the actual book discussion. That's why even if I did not like this book, I cannot rate this with 1 star. Why I did not like this book?1. I cannot understand why the first 100 pages should be made confusing2. The claim or fight for territory has nothing to do with the rest of the book. Also, I do not understand exactly how it is supposed to work.3. The love affair between Taylor and Briggs is too mushy for my taste. Felt like Katniss-Peeta or Bella-Edward. I'm too old for that.4. Taylor is a pathetic female character IMO.5. Taylor is asked to lead even if she is asthmatic. Is there nobody else who can lead?Anyway, according to my trusted friends in this group, the book is amazing. Maybe they are still young and the story "speaks" to them. So, let's leave it at that. However, I can say that this book has a good intent. It also has a developed story that other readers can emphatize with. I guess that this is just not for me.But it is my ardent desire that this book will influence our North Korean friend to back off in his evil plan of building nuclear arsenal in the side of the world. Stop your expansionist plan, please and be content on what you have. Then if you have to test nukes, please don't point it to the Philippines! See, we also love Melina Marchetta! See, we both read and enjoythisbook!Thanks for lending me this book, Aaron.