first introductionI read years ago about a monster marathon reading ofMoby Dickin the USA, volunteers would each read a chapter aloud and they would get through the book in maybe two and a half days, where they read I do not remember, not in Nantucket or New Bedford I think, but probably in New England - which gives you better odds of finding such a reading than Ahab had in searching for the White Whale. Surprisingly such readings haven't become a major spectator sport, nor even a matter of rivalry between towns and states, perhaps one day in the future...second introductionmany years ago, but not quite four score years and ten, I readMoby Dickin the penguin edition, one of those in which the introduction is itself an epic ,fit to murder an honest reader and the endnotes virtually as long as the novel again - I felt obliged to read with one finger in the story and another in the notes and I flopped awkwardly from one to the other. This edition that I have read now, has all the cruel disadvantages of no over helpful introduction and no endnotes which explain everything that you never needed to know, and so as a consequence is a much easier book to read.might be a reviewreading the final pages I was suddenly reminded of the story of Saint Hubertus - man hunts stag, stag turns on man with message from God, man renounces hunting to become saint. Moby Dick is almost the same story except in a more old testament way, the hunter instead chooses to ignore or misunderstand all the warnings he is given. And as we are reminded in the book, ultimately the dogs licked King Ahab's blood (1 Kings 22). But I am getting entangling in my own line, let me cut myself free. Saint Hubertus' story was also mine own, for I turned my back on the glory of the White Whale until it came with a heavy splash after me and swallowed me whole even as Jonah was swallowed in days of old.much more likely to be a reviewApparently, or so Wikipeadia tells me and what faith I put in that I dare not publically say, E.M. Forster wroteMoby-Dick is full of meanings: its meaning is a different problem, I believe however, that I concur to the utmost with that opinion, for me it is one of the great books of the world - a proud and vain belief as I shall certainly never read but a small percentage (if at all countable) of the world's books, and no less foolishly I believe it is The Great American Novel perhaps because slippery with whale blubber, it warns non-Americans about race and religion and society in the USA, it might be the great novel of capitalism (or Marxism) or even the great novel about what man does to the environment and our fellow creatures (but I repeat myself, as I said the great novel of capitalism or Marxism, reminding me of Melville's storyThe Paradise of Bachelors and the Tartarus of Maids).All novels set aboard ships immediately ring symbolic bells for the reader (if they are attended to is another question - and not attending to the toiling of symbolism is a big theme in the book). The ship and it's crew can be taken as representing society, it is the ship of state (not to be confused with a stately ship), a ship of fools, an Odyssey - though in this case the end point of the voyage is not Ithaca but a more final resting place, a Quest not for the Golden Fleece but for the golden oil or a quest for something else, vengeance or self-destruction. It is a surprisingly straight retelling of the Biblical story of Ahab set in Melville's own times and translated to his 'modern' setting. In the Bible God brings down King Ahab by means of false prophecy, here Captain Ahab plugs his ears to the siren call of true prophecy clinging instead to the Delphic riddle of a Parsi (not that there is anything intrinsically wrong in harkening to the fortune telling of Parsis(view spoiler)[ though I am compelled to say that soothsayers of other nations are available(hide spoiler)], a whaling ship makes use of all talents we are told). We believe what we want to, and when that leads us into disaster maybe that is just what we want.Marvellously, the book proceeds like a whale, diving below water and swimming unseen, breaking the surface and turning on the reader suddenly. The eponymous whale is introduced to us through his actions and legends, but we barely meet him and in person only at the very end of the story, that he consists of massive symbolic power we are explicitly told, but what he symbolises is open to the reader to decide. The big old whale could of course just be a big old whale and not an incarnation of God or an agent of Divine will. The burden of symbolism and foreshadowing ought to be enough to make the poor Pequod capsize before she leaves harbour, but she bobs away prettily partly because of Melville's digressions on whaling and whales. Encyclopaedic diversions, which distract us from the vexing question of how in an Divine universe does a person distinguish between the false and the true prophets.WhileMoby Dick's narrator is saved by a comic inversion, the novel itself was not and sank only to be dredged up and revived after the author's death and glancing at reviews you can see why, it's a big novel full of disparate elements. It is unconventional in almost every way. In the updates I made I mentioned how a couple of lines reminded me of the poemInvictus, it is unlikely there is any relationship between the two, but culturally I would say thatInvictusis a thoroughly Victorian piece asserting the triumph of the will, the heroic individual able to stand defiant if not o'ercome all difficulties.Moby Dickis the complete opposite, the heroic individual is Ahab, his triumphant will leads to death, admiration of his passion and obedience to his orders leads to lots of deaths and the novel questions the notion ofI am the Captain of my soul, the master of my fateright from start - the narrator instead tells uswho ain't a slave? Tell me that. Well, then, however the old sea-captains may order me about - however they may thump and punch me about, I have the satisfaction of knowing that it is all right; that everybody else is one way or other served in much the same way - either in a physical or metaphysical point of view that is; and so the universal thump is passed round, and all hands should rub each other's shoulder-blades and be content(p.5) andthe commonalty lead their leaders in many other things, at the same time that the leaders little suspect it(p.5) , Ahab is the captain of the ship, but who is the captain of Ahab? Ahab himself denies responsibility - I don't think, I just feel - he tells us, but Ahab feels differently to other ship's captain's in similar situations, the solution then lies elsewhere: predestination maybe, fate perhaps, psychology even. From a broader point of view we are also shown that the whaling industry is both fundamental to Victorian society, but at the same time it's irreverent inversion. The married ship's officers are almost perpetually absent from their marriage beds, pausing there barely long enough to reproduce, the ship itself an idyll, a foretaste of heaven the narrator imagines when he participates in squeezing sperm on deck, gazing dreamily into his shipmate's eyes unable anymore to distinguish their sperm softened hands. Men of many nations and diverse faiths sail as one crew in an age that insisted on firm divisions between faiths, nations and races. The Narrator is married to the Polynesian Harpooner even before they join the ship, which they do as a couple, in this world a same-sex relationship is as normally abnormal as everything else. Society may be built upon whale oil, but the whaling business turns life on its head.Perhaps to try to make something ofMoby Dickto try to find meaning meaning is the last joke the book has at the reader's expense, turning the reader into Captain Ahab, a poor monomanic in pursuit of a dreadful White Whale. In which case just remember Bartleby's philosophy:I would prefer not to.