I am a devout DG/Outlander fan, so of course I read Echo in the Bone as fast as I could get my mitts on it...and it left me sorely disappointed!I actually skipped pages! She said that there were four story lines (hence the four points on the Caltrop on the cover) and I was excited at first. But when I got into the story, I got bored with the overlong passages about William and John's intrigues. Where were Jamie and Claire?? (And why the hell can't they manage a sea voyage without trouble??) I actually started to wish I could read about Brianna (one of my least favorite people...)I heard her say there was going to be another book after this one (the ongoing belief was that this book was going to be the last one) which is very apparent after this book that there has to be one more. But I feel like if she had cut half of the story out and finished the cliffhanging story lines, she could be done by now, and I could have peace of mind knowing the story is over! I mean I really don't appreciate being led on for 2/3 of a book and then have four different surprise endings.Some other smaller points:-felt choppy-dragged at points and then skipped over more interesting points-not enough Jamie and Claire!!!I'm going to read it again more slowly to see if my opinion changes, but first I need to let the dust settle on my disappointment.**EDIT**OK, So I've had some time to sit and ruminate on the experience of this book and why I couldn't pinpoint the niggling reason (like bothering a sore tooth with your tongue) why I was so disappointed. There were the shallow obvious reasons of course, like four surprise endings, but deeper still ran something vague and unnameable until now. See, as silly as it sounds, I became emotionally invested in the characters and stories of Jamie and Claire, and rightly so, a good book should make you care about its characters.Being a typical DG fangirl, I've read all the Outlander novels without much complaint, and re-read, and re-read, and re-read. I don't think I can do that with this book. I think there are about 100 pages I'd be willing to go through again. So yeah, I'm angry that I don't have another book to keep re-reading, as psycho as it sounds.I'm not really sure if I should be angry at Diana Gabaldon, her editor, her publisher, or anyone else who read this book before it went to press and didn't tell her she needed to get a pair of proverbial scissors. Of course I'll be getting the next and hopefully last book, but with a lesser amount of trust and a greater wariness.