Dis book.Alright, so working in a bookstore sometimes you come across some pretty ridiculous looking books. Beach Vampire anyone? But as a child of the early 90's my threshold for cheese can be pretty high. I love The Lost Boys and all the Living Dead movies and sometimes if the moon is high in the sky, and the stars align, I can find a teen horror/paranormal book that I can enjoy in an equally cheesy fashion. Picking up and sifting through all of these books day after day I could only wonder if one of these books might not be the next milk based jackpot. One day I mentioned this to a coworker and was surprised to find that she too felt the same way. So putting our heads together we devised an ingenious plan to be able to read our way through these and still keep our dignity intact. The Bad Teen Book Book Club! Perfect! We would both take turns picking the worst of the worst and would read them together, secretly enjoying some, spurning others, and if any of our coworkers asked we could always respond with a roll of the eyes and say "Oh yeah, we're trying to outdo each other on the bad book scale. I didn't really want to read this one but you see she insisted . . ." And so with the plan in place we marched foreword and in the process found some comedic gold, some unexpected favorites, but mostly just bland, boring teen lit.And then one day we picked up this.It was amusing for awhile to talk about this one at work and watch other's reactions.Me : So I got to the part where the villain is leaving sparkles everywhere.Fellow Conspirator : I nearly laughed my ass off. How on earth . . .?Me : If I saw some dim wit pointing at me and then leaves sprinkles on the ground I'd think it was an escaped mental patient with a penchant for glitter, not a pixy king out to woo me.FC : That pretty much sums it up right there doesn't it?But soon even the novelty of that wore off as the looks on others faces suddenly went from baffled horror to straight up disgust. I found myself suddenly reluctant to be seen in public holding the thing. I had the vague, unpleasant sensation of being seen with slightly seedy porn. I took to covering the thing up with a stack of old Subway napkins when I left it in my car between lunch breaks, terrified someone might see it and know that I was in possession of fairy, incest wish fulfillment.This book can best be summed up by World Stupidest Teenagers meet World's Stupidest Villain.Zara is being haunted by a dark and brooding figure who follows her across state lines to her new home. This dark and evil creature stares at her across great distances and . . . points at her before vanishing. No really, that's it. He also leaves massive amounts of glitter in his wake but how that's supposed to be frightening is beyond me. Zara instantly makes new friends at school and, upon hearing her plight of woe about some stranger's pointer finger, INSTANTLY jump on the idea that he must be a malevolent supernatural force. A quick trip to their handy dandy neighborhood library that just HAPPENS to have ancient tombs on fairy lore handy reveals that Zara is being haunted by a Pixy King, which almost makes me feel sorry for the girl since she isn't even being haunted by a real fairy. It's like she got downgraded before the story even began. Also in the book are the ever memorable lines of, I shit you not, 'it's pretty rare for a pixy king to be interested in someone so you should be flattered, it also means you're probably not 100% human'.Weeee lookee me! I'm Carrie Jones! Writing a book is easy! Got any other fantastically easy ways to get the plot along with minimal effort that will solve all your writing problems that you can push out you lazy excuse for an author?Anyway, I made it to the point where Zara starts arguing with her car after naming it Yoko and gave up. The situations were sloppily drawn, the characters little more than tools to keep the bland plot moving, and the incest implications more than unfortunate. I also found all the political stuff vaguely insulting since it's handled in such a sitcom, 7th heaven type way that it seems to cheapen rather than raise awareness to the various causes the author seems to be trying to promote.My friend stuck it out, as per rules of our agreement that whomever picked the book must finish it. What she told me of the plot after that did more to horrify rather than inspire.BONUS TIME!Also, the more I look at this cover the more one has to wonder. If glitter is the calling card of the bad guy, and he only leaves it on the ground whenever he makes an appearance, how on earth did it get all over her lips like that? Is she sucking it up off of the ground? IDK, I give up.