Oh the things that were wrong with this book! Where do I begin...Obviously (and unfortunately) abusive and alcoholic families exist in all types of households, religious or non-religious. I felt this story was presented in such a way that the author was trying to impress that Pattyn's situation happens in many LDS households, and I simply don't believe that's the case. It unfortunately happens, but from my understanding it is not a regular occurrence.The largest issue I had with this book is the way male members of the church talk about women and the way Pattyn views herself in the church. I can completely understand how people who are foreign to church doctrince could mistake the church for being sexist and anti-feminist. I would be lying if I said members with those views did not exist (again, this is something that happens in ALL religion). However, the way the men in this book speak to and treat the women is a completely inaccurate reflection of the church as a whole. I cannot imagine any church member defending an abusive husband and stating that they have a right to control their wife in such a way. Women are note seen as JUST baby makers. Yes there are gender roles in the church but Hopkins exaggerates that grossly and inaccurately; it is an issue that seems poorly researched.I truly do see where Hopkins is coming from and can understand the questions she raises, but it would be much easier to take this book seriously if it was more researched.Another major issue I had with this book was Pattyn's and Ethan's relationship. It felt incredibly rushed and awkward! Part of that might be the fact that this book is written in free verse and that it's a little challenging to explore and write dialogue between the characters, but I thought Pattyn's relationship with her Aunt was much more developed then her's and Ethan's.Lastly, I felt like the ending ultimately destroyed the whole point of the book, it was such a contradiction to Pattyn's whole journey, and, as someone who grew up in the LDS church, I found it incredibly ironic to say the least.An interesting read but not something I would ever recommend.