Ok. Hi. As some of you might know - I already wrote a review for this novel, and then my internet decided to hate me &amp; crashed &amp; killed my soul. So. Let's hope that doesn't happen again.--For some reason, I've always avoided Ellen Hopkins' novels. When I was just a wee little 11 year old redheaded gremlin, I made the stupid decision to readCrank. I think due to the sex, drugs, abuse, alcohol, and mature themes, my poor tween mind was scarred for life, and thus the unspoken rule tonever pick up another Hopkins novel like ever again everwas created.Good thing I'm 16 now &amp; totally corrupted! Yay! Bring on the Hopkins' novels!!!!(Hopkins's? Hopkins'? Whatever.)Hopkins'('s) has a very unique writing style. If you've glanced at the inside of one of her books, you'll see that she writes in a very,poetic, fashion. However - due to her weird (but kind of pretty?) way of constructing a story, the novel as a whole feels extremely impersonal. I was never able to connect with Pattyn, or Ethan, or Aunt J. Everything felt very two dimensional. Due to the dialogue (which was never indicated with quotation marks, and often not even in italics) many of the arguments fell flat, and the stories Aunt J. shared with Pattyn lost their impact. It's incredible how much weak dialogue can affect a story - andBurnedis a perfect example. The energy dulled, the characters lost theiroomph, andthemeaningbehind many of the words faded.PSA TO ALL AUTHORS EVERYWHERE - USE QUOTATION MARKS! PLEASE. THE UNIVERSE THANKS YOU.Anyway - Pattyn's story was still .... interesting, albeit tragic. The ending was a bit of a shock to the system. Do not come into this book expecting love &amp; happiness &amp; rainbows &amp; unicorns. Because it's sad. Like, really, reallysad. Like, OMG WTF is wrong with you Hopkins you sick human being, sad. I'm trying to say as much as I can without spoiling anything, so just - just, don't read this if your dog just died. Or like, anything traumatic happened to you within the last 6 years.Soooooooooo yeah. - felt impersonal, kind of slow, weird dialogue, reading about sex is gross.... you get it.Will I be reading the next novel? No. Do I recommend you read this? No. Unless - you've read Hopkins before and already like her. But if not - no.Sorry for being a Debbie downer. But trust me, if you've already read this book, comparatively, I'm like the happiest human being on the planet right now.Hope you all are well &amp; have a fab weekend.