So I take a almost a two-year hiatus from reading, and I do this. I come back to one of the wretched Shadowhunter series'. I was waiting to get my car fixed at Walmart a few days ago, and I decided to pick this book up. And you know me. Once I start reading something, NO MATTER HOW AWFUL, I must finish. I SUCCUMBED. Pathetic, I know.SUE ME, OKAY?!There are at least a few common things you can find in every Shadowhunter series.1. Forbidden love or love triangle of some sort2. Lots of angst3. Long, awkward, and often cringey descriptions of make out sessions between love interests4. Continuous descriptions of the main male protagonist's physical features and how they look in the sunlight or moonlight or whatever5. Cheesy villain and his cliche backstory6. Cardboard cutouts of past characters7. PredictableThis book is nearly shit, obviously. I will explain the nearly later.Firstly, why is this book so LONG!? Nearly 700 pages. It could have been much shorter if she cut out certain, unnecessary scenes. I suppose I forgot how long her books are. Hmm, must be the overly dramatic romance. Or the lengthy, cheesy descriptions of how everyone looks. For instance, what is this? I swear this is real.The sunlight illuminated his eyelashes.I read something like that at the beginning of the book when she described Julian. I've always had a problem with Clare's writing but that just made me laugh out loud. That sentence should suffice. The rest of the book was just Clare describing how beautiful Julian looked at every hour of the day, or in every angle. This is the same thing that happened with Mortal Instruments. Jace and his golden eyes and caramel hair. Clary and her fiery red hair and emerald eyes. And this...I was thinking about painting you. Painting your hair. That I'd have to use titanium white to get the color right, the way it catches light and almost glows. But that wouldn't work, would it? It's not all one color, your hair, it's not just gold: It's amber, and tawny and caramel and wheat and honey.This is the most unrealistic shit I've ever come across. Men are absolute shit at discriminating among colors. It's what they make fun of us women for! And Julian's seventeen. I get that he's a painter and all but STILL. I've seen this kind of crap way too many times for me to melt into a puddle of water.Emma is disappointing. It's a shame that I hate most female protagonists, at least in YA books. I wish I had more positive experiences but man... She's annoying, childish, and arrogant. She isn't sassy or sarcastic or quick-witted as Clare intended her to be. She's just plain daft. Like, empty. She's basically Jace. And that immature shit she pulled at the end? I don't understand. She is just so contrived.Julian is so bleh. He's the opposite of that jackass Jace, but he's not any better. He makes people feel bad that his life sucks, (he has to take care of kids and run a house -- therefore he deserves to be PRAISED AT ALL TIMES) is a painter (but paints literally only Emma... SHOCKING), wears a bracelet made of seashells or something, smells like cloves... why btw? I mean, JUST cloves is kind of gross. He's also very clingy. These kinds of romantic plots always irk me. I don't ever see the characters as themselves, just when they're together.Always together.So unbelievably together. Even when they're not together, they're together. Literally all Emma thinks of is Julian. All Julian ever thinks of is Emma. I mean, even with the whole parabatai stuff, is that really necessary?Together, they are a disaster. Constantly whining about how they can't be together and how oh-so-painful it is. Haven't seen that before... Everyone is supposed to worship their perfect asses because they're the best Shadowhunters of their generation. Never seen that before either! Also, why do Emma and Julian need to HIDE their love in the first place? DOES ANYONE NOT SEE HOW ABSOLUTELY IN LURVE THEY ARE?!The rest of the Blackthorn family are annoying. The only characters I enjoyed reading about were Mark and Christina. They are the least annoying, least contrived. Mark has a lot of dynamic. Christina is just so soft and pleasant and... quiet. She knows what to say and when to say it. I would love to read more about them in the next books.I don't have much to say about the plot besides that it is so predictable and jaded. If Clare had not spent so much time describing how pretty and perfect and untouchable Emma and Julian were, maybe I would have paid more attention to it. Shame.I'm not surprised. I'm not sure what I was expecting. All I know is that there is DEFINITELY something wrong with me. Because guess who'll be back to read and review the next installment of this beautiful series?