"Well is it known that ambition can creep as well as soar."Edmund BurkeI'm relatively sure that in 1925 this novel was bleeding edge: based on a true crime, mixing an omniscient narrative, mostly of the anti-hero Clyde Griffiths' inner thoughts, with some reportage. Dreiser based it on the notorious criminal prosecution of a young man named Chester Gillette for the murder in the summer of 1906 of a 20-year-old lady found drowned near an overturned boat at Big Moose Lake in the Adirondacks. He was executed in the electric chair in March 1908.In the novel, Clyde Griffiths is ambitious, driven by a need to escape poverty and rise way above its stigma, after growing up impoverished as the son of traveling evangelists. After working as a bellman in his teen years in Kansas City, then in Chicago where he runs into his uncle (whom he's never met before), he goes to work, after basically inviting himself, at his uncle's shirt collar factory in upstate New York.After working his way up the ladder a bit, he falls for pure beauty, a young, rather bland underling of rural beginnings named Roberta. Yet he is overly fascinated with and allured by the wealth and society of the town (being related, but not close to, one of its richest families), so when the town's prettiest and most popular, but shallow, young socialite starts paying him attention, he dumps Roberta. Roberta then finds out she's pregnant. They look for a doctor to perform an abortion, to no avail. Clyde's plans of a new glamorous life are on the rocks.You can probably guess where this is headed. This is not an ingenious criminal plan drawn up by our finest crime writers. Clyde must be one of the dumbest criminals ever. To be fair though, Dreiser was aiming more for Clyde's thought processes and the circumstances that brought him to the point where he would take the life of his girlfriend pregnant with his child.The novel is loaded with symbolism and foreshadowing (e.g., the society girls are "electrifying"). And I sort of lost interest once it became apparent to me that he didn't have the slightest chance of being deemed not guilty by reason of mental disease or defect. Also, I found the dialogue hokey at times, the prose quite plastic, and chunks of the novel dispassionate (due to blending reporting into the narrative ). While this was probably sensational in the late 1920s after its publication, it pains me to say that our society nearly a century later including me, in all matters besides local, has become almost numb to such reported true life crimes except when the reporting goes much deeper into the criminal psyche or provides more salacious details (which wasn't the case here).