7.0/10UNCLE!While I am claiming a DNF on this round, I am still claiming my gold stars rating because I have already read it once. (As if once wasn't enough, she sighed.)This book was really swell, boys and girls. Really it was. I mean, it was swingin'. It had all the home-grown-gee-whiz about it that everyone wants from the great american novel. Lots of dancin' and jivin' and rootin-toot-toot-tin' fun. Man, you really get to know your onions 'bout life in the bowery, guys and gals.Well, that's my limit of 1920s slang. I mean, I could go on -- and on -- much as Dreiser does, but I ain't in the mood, ya know. And besides, I still want to have friends when I finally leave this behind.I realized half way through this rich plum pudding of Americana, dense as it is, and dripping with Dreiser's peculiar brand of rum sauce, that Dreiser had a perfect (contemporaneous) counterpart in Cecil B. DeMille. In fact, I'd go out on a limb, dancin' and jivin' all the way, to say he was the literary DeMille. There is that same obsessive quality to overperform and overcomplicate; to over-describe and over-compensate. Dreiser doesn't see a room but he has to describe all the furniture in it, right down to the dust motes in the flea's eye.Like DeMille, he has great stories to tell and is an absolute genius for detail, which is what make the stories rich and memorable. But where DeMille had a grand canvas and knew just when to pull back the camera, Dreiser continues drilling into the center of the mote.He is able to capture the pathos of an entire generation with a simple, throw-away action like eyelashes fluttering for the wrong boy, at the wrong time; for within that innocuous flutter shared between the "wrong people" an entire life can come to ruin. He is a genius at depicting the unravelling, between the flutter and the fall -- and one would be hard pressed to find anyone who could do it better for it would be difficult indeed to find someone with such an exacting mind and formidable imagination.He is unflagging in his pursuit for truth at all costs -- for he has moved, in this novel, far beyond the yawning gape holes of Sister Carrie -- and into a world where truth is the prime, and only, mover. Despite all costs, despite all pending tragedy, each character moves in a trajectory as if on a conveyor belt to ultimate damnation.The true cost here, however, is wielded with a double-edged sword because while Dreiser sticks to the truth of a story, a character, he realizes there are as many truths as there are situations in a person's life; and the ultimate complication is that he tries to address each truth from different points of view. It -- truly -- redefines the meaning of omniscient narrator.If only Dreiser had learned to pull back the camera a bit, like deMille, for the sake of the story, the tale would hang so much better. I can forgive Dreiser much, including his abominable style, his exhaustive descriptions, his tortured prose, but the final hiccup comes when I am bidden to understand everything for everyone without being given sufficient reason.Still, I am very glad I read this -- at least once; and made a valiant attempt the second time 'round.When one wades through the prose style of possibly the worst writer in history, there is much to like, and ponder, and empathize with what happens between the flutter and the fall.