Many people love love love this book, so I'm going to skip the praise (you can read plenty of it elsewhere) and go straight to criticism:1. The phrase "untouched in my hands" really bothers me. How can something be untouched if it's in your hands?2. I worry this book is dated already. Do kids in the year 2010 really say "tight" anymore? I know Draper is trying to make Melody sound like a real kid, but to me she sounds like an adulttryingto sound like a kid. In fact, a lot of dialogue struck me as unrealistic (i.e. an adult's version of what she thinks modern kids sound like). I've never heard anyone say, "She is tripping," without droppin' the g. I haven't heard anyone say, "He thinks he's all that," since 1998 (unless it was sarcastic). Now, I still say things are "the bomb," but I'm a lot older than the kids in this book. Other things that I think will date this book: MySpace, TiVo, Nintendo Wii, iPhones, and the phrase "That's what's up!" (Update: Okay, so iPhones are not going to date the book and I'm now married to a guy who says "That's what's up!" all the time. However, I still stand by droppin' the g in trippin' and kids not calling things tight or "all that." I've re-read sections of the book and I think it's Draper's overuse of exclamation points that makes her characters sound inauthentic.)3. It strikes me as unrealistic that Melody, with her super intelligence, couldn't communicate better using her low-tech talking board. If she's a perfect speller, couldn't she spell out "I love you," to her parents? Or use the talking board to tell the story of what happened to her goldfish? Wouldn't her parents take the time to allow her to do that? Better yet, wouldn't her parents research adaptive technology so they could communicate better with their child?4. The villains in this story (Molly and Claire, the bad teachers and the stupid psychologist that gives Melody her initial intelligence test) are totally one-dimensional. I get really annoyed when authors create flat characters that are easy to hate. You can have bad guys, but flesh them out a little. Why was the psychologist who gave Melody her initial intelligence test so terrible? I suppose this is why second opinions are so important. Why are Molly and Claire so mean? Why aren't they held accountable?5. I thought the near-tragedy thrown in at the end of the book didn't really contribute to the story. It was a weird way to end the book, like the author wanted to crank up the melodrama in the end, and she overdid it. And how weird was the scene at the end where Melody reacts to a difficult situation by laughing hysterically?6. This is a personal issue: I went to elementary school with a boy who had CP and he spent just a small part of each day away from the rest of our class. If this was the case in the 1980s, it's hard for me to believe that educators in the 21st Century have regressed into the situation Melody finds herself in. I could be completely wrong, but it still affected the way I felt about the book. I loved the first chapter, but I grew more and more skeptical as it went on. (Update: Many people have told me in the comments that it *is* common for children with disabilities to be segregated from the rest of the school. I suppose I should remove this criticism, but I will leave it -- it shows that what strikes one reader as unrealistic can be all too realistic for another reader. Thanks, commenters.)To conclude my review I want to say: I'm not heartless! I think this story has the potential to really move young readers, to make them look at their abilities in a more appreciative light. And I think it's important for kids to read stories told from a perspective like Melody's because it opens their minds and hearts. But this book had a lot of shortcomings and I'm not one to ignore them just because the subject matter is important. I really believe this could have been a much better book.Update: I just read something by authorPatrick Nesson School Library Journal's Battle of the Books 2014. He said there are too many books he calls CBAITS, which stand for Crappy Books About Important Things. I was like, yes! I don't think I'd go so far as to call Out of My Mind acrappybook, but I do think its important subject matter blinded some readers to its literary flaws.