This is the crown jewel of Dawkin's popular works. It is a masterpiece of choice illustration, finely honed definitions and pedantically nuanced distinctions, all framed by his engaging, pacey style. It has justly made him an iconic populariser. It is his best referenced and most tightly reasoned book.He starts with characteristic confidence: Darwinian evolution is as established as the earth's solar orbit. Blind prejudice or intellectual deficiency alone could misinterpret the data. The debate about his ingenious central thesis, the validity of a gene-focussed and gene-preserving explanation of altruism and other counter-intuitive behaviours, continues 31 years on.Strange then that as an exponent of hard-nosed empiricism, that his second chapter should take flight into the hyperspace of imaginative speculation. From p.12-14 see the brave professor leaping confidently into the realm of pre-biotic evolution. A world of hydrogen and methane, lashed with lightning, in which pre-biotic substrates accumulate to such excess they form a scum on the primordial soup. Serious doubts about the duration and degree of an intensely reducing atmosphere are voiced by geologists, but this is no deterrent to our bold champion. Watch the analytical chemists sucking their teeth and wincing as the author leaps further into the abyss, the bungee cord of tedious documentation and observation already looking dangerously frayed. Where are the pyrimidine nucleosides? (quite impossible to synthesize). What of the instability of cytosine? How can phosphate be preserved without precipitation? What on earth will enable bases, sugars (requiring quite different synthetic conditions) and phosphate to meet, and then miraculously and without enzymes to fuse correctly as even the most primitive proto DNA/RNA. The gaping abyss of data appears unending, yet Poppins-like, our professor seems to assure us, if we wish for it hard enough, however impossible - anything can happen. The difficulties have but just begun, what of chirality, what of the propensity of polymers to hydrolyse, how to survive intense ozone-less UV radiation? But lo! (p. 15) Our seer perceives a miracle - a virgin birth! * No, more amazing still, a virgin Replicator, unbegotten yet always begetting! Intrinsically unstable enough to have been formed initially, but stable enough to fill the whole earth with copies. Despite a studied vagueness here he suggests a primitive form of DNA (now his latest vogue is AATE). In p 18. our mysterious replicator wonderfully accumulates longevity, fecundity and copying fidelity. By p.19, wonder of wonders, it has metamorphosed into a `simple' cell, with protein synthetic machinery, chiral purity, an intact membrane barrier, metabolic, transport, repair functions and most marvellous of all the ability to reproduce the whole. By p.20 the miracle transformation of `goo' to you is complete.Here is narrative that makes the wildest encounters of the Enterprise or Galactica look as mundane as Coronation Street by comparison. Here is drawn out, revivified spontaneous generation similar to the kind Pasteur definitively crushed in 1862, 3 years after the Origin was published. The imaginary link in chapter 2 is indispensable to the chain of Dawkin's whole thesis. But this is not science - it's wishful supposition. Here is a religious materialism that avoids the data, rather than re-examine its assumptions, however increasingly ridiculous they appear.*(Footnote to p.16. Dawkins' over forced distinction between two Hebrew terms is artificial, as 10 min reference to a concordance might have warned him. It suggests over-reliance on doubting colleagues, dubiously disguised as theologians. See the Hebrew of Joel 1.8.)