Goodness this book is dreadful. Unrealistic, overly-sentimental, pure drivel. YUCK.I am most bothered by the fact that Sharon Draper must really think very poorly of educators. Since EVERY SINGLE teacher (sans one, three paragraph, mention of a third grade teacher who liked to play books on tape for Melody) is a HORRIBLE HUMAN BEING. Not even bad teachers...like awful, horrible, despicable people. Where did these people go to school? Where are the occupational therapist? Where is her case-worker? Education doesn't work like this anymore. Melody's mom could actually SUE the school for their level of disregard for her education.Like firing. Law suits. THe SH*&amp; has hit the fan type of stuff here.But to write about it like that's just the way education is? Way to continue teacher-bashing in your own way.Thanks Ms. Draper. Yikes.No -- I have no idea why this book has been so acclaimed.As an educator, I can tell you that kids who were that openly mean to a CP kid would be reprimanded, not encouraged. This book is stuck in some sort of 80s after-school-special time-warp where the bullies are the cool kids and you can still say "retard". What doctor wouldn't encourage more testing? What teachers would write her off? (***Maybe so actually...I just read that Draper has a nonverbal CP kid. Maybe this child is now in his/her 30s and she's ridiculously behind-the-times? OR...maybe this is a subject she shouldn't have touched with a ten foot pole.)It's just not the way of the world. And to base your entire premise of a novel on some sort of alternate universe should not earn you accolades. People should call this author on her clear misrepresentation of the 5th grade.Also, Melody had an alphabet at her disposal and could write early on. Why couldn't she write out "I love you" before receiving her medical-talker-thingie?This book doesn't make sense...and it was clearly designed to get people to shed some tears and feel all touchy-feely.I, on the other hand, am ashamed that this is what we're having kids read and calling good literature. Good God, people. Are you for real? I feel like an awful human being for hating this so much -- I understand being a mom of a kid with a disability...you tend to be heightened to the rudeness, the pain of your kid. But I still can't forgive this ridiculous book.