Book of the Year Awards... Really? Is it unsympathetic of me to think that this book is... childish? How reductive should authors of children's lit be?I've been working with a young student this summer, andThe Thief Lord, by Cornelia Funke, is a big favorite on the sixth grade circuit. This particular boy had chosen it for summer reading, and so I picked up a copy for myself.Enh.Billed as a "fantastical journey" through "the magical underworld of Venice, Italy",The Thief Lordfollows a pair of orphaned boys on the run from their condescending aunt. They survive with the help of a small gang of children run by one boy, Scipio, who takes on the titular moniker. Trouble comes their way, though, as the boys' aunt hires a detective to track them down and as the gang discovers a secret that their leader has been hiding.Ok: Venice, gangs of child thieves, possessive relatives on the prowl... Prime fixin's for a romantic vision; sounds like the makings of a Dickensian tale. But as the story reveals itself--strict, impatient fathers; detectives with fake moustaches; grumpy shopkeepers--the more cliche and the less compelling it becomes.The Thief Lorddoesn't run too deep. It's a fun tale that takes the reader through modern day Venice, and it seems to begin and end there: a fun tale. Well, a fun tale for kids. Everyone acts like children in this novel. Even the grumpy grown-ups. Especially the grumpy grown-ups.Even as a cultural piece (Venice!), the novel falls short. Aside from a few choice phrases in Italian, Funke doesn't take advantage of the opportunity to educate her readers (young and old) the way she could. The novel bounces from piazza to ponte, but everything--settings, characters, etc..--feels vague and undefined.Do I recommend this?Not really.Would I teach this?Nope.Lasting impression:The world ofThe Thief Lorddidn't glow with it's own hidden knowledge the way Pullman or Rowling's worlds do. Characters move impulsively. "Brilliant" ideas don't seem so brilliant. Plot twists rely too much on coincidence and contrivances. Enh.