So Ihaveread something else of Clive Barker's. Good to know. Umm, this book is really goddamn weird. I've read and watched some odd things, but this is reaaaaally out there. I normally like original things... not so sure here. I remember talking to another person about weird books and they told me about a book where the main character had a bug head, a wasp I want to say, and I remember thinking 'That sounds really stupid.' and I think I feel the same way with most ofImajica.It's true, the book is very unique and very inventive. If that is up someones alley then go right ahead and read this book. However, the characters, being the thing I love most in a book, sucked. They were just bad. They were bland (personality, not appearance by any means) and they didn't have much of a personality. Their actions seemed kind of lethargic and without feeling - unless sex was involved. If sex was involved they got right on board! Apparent female lead being brain-washed by repulsive fat man and then falling in love with him and having scene, after scene, after scene, of repulsive sex? Sign me up! Then there was the protagonists lover... which was a shape-changer. This was a little weird, but I was kind of on board. The personality reminded me of an effeminate cat and (maybe I'm crazy for thinking this) I imagined it as a black man with dreadlocks most of the time. Despite my aversion to reading things that generally make me shiver, like fat people having sex, or two men having sex, I continued to read this. I was pleasantly surprised when an entire chapter became dedicated to the repeated rape (rape? he/she sort of wanted to do it...) of the shape-changer by repulsive creatures - which was my cue to go.Don't get me wrong, the story was also kind of meandering and stale. If a story is dynamic and really hooks me then I can follow it for a long time, this one didn't so much.Not very good story coupled withnumerous incredibly uncomfortable and detailed sex scenesultimately led to my knowing this just isn't my type of book.I vaguely recall my brother saying the Anne Rice books had a lot of bizarre vampire sex at a certain point; maybe if you like that you will like this. Just don't talk about it to anyone. Ever.