I am flabbergasted that this book gets so many positive reviews. The writing is so bad that I can't believe the book was even published. Maybe it's not fair to compare this book to masterpieces like The Color Purple or All the King's Men, but I can find stories for free on the internet that are written better than this. (For example, why describe adirect quoteas "terse"? You just told me the whole quote! And surely no book needs the word "sardonic" in it ten times.) I didn't fully appreciate what a "flat character" was until I read this book - even the main characters are as well rounded as a sheet of paper. And even though I am notorious as not predicting plots, I could predict this one. The young Roman master can't sleep, walks out to the garden, and finds ... wait for it ... his new slave girl, praying! Nobody saw that coming!The only reason I kept reading was for the incidental information I picked up about Rome, and I'm taking that with a grain of salt. Despite the author's attempt to be historically accurate (I'm assuming) by using the Latin names for garments, parts of the house, and the bath, I'm pretty certain the book is filled with anachronisms. I haven't done research, but I find it hard to believe that a slave would alternate between calling her master "my lord" and using his first name. And okay, the target audience for this book is probably not familiar with mixed martial arts, but the descriptions of fights border on nonsensical. I would like to point out that when a person is choked unconscious, his vision doesn't blur, it gets black around the edges. Getting that correct doesn't even require personal experience (ahem), a simple Google search is sufficient.As at least one other reviewer has noted, for a Christian book, this is not exactly edifying. Only Hadassah is Christian, and she spends most of the book being distressed at the actions of all the other characters as they go about being as debauched as humanly possible. Descriptions of unlikeable characters frittering away their lives at games and parties quickly get old, and I can point to several non-Christian books with much better (and more believable) role models. I'd give this book zero stars if possible.