Ah, here comes rolling in another author everyone, but me, thinks great. Not that I think they are bad, but maybe their style is just not meant for me. Or rather the style of that one particular book is not for me and it is just unfortunate that I have had to pick that instead of any of their other books. So to say that I don't like Sidney Sheldon whenIf Tomorrow Comesis the only book I have read, or Neil Gaiman when I have only readThe Graveyard Bookis unfair and untimely. I always give these 'great' authors second chance - in case of Stephen King even third and fourth even though each time our relationship failed miserably.On to reviewingIf Tomorrow Comes. The book was about Tracy Whitney whose life turned upside down overnight when her mother committed suicide after being cheated by a gang of mafia. One day she was the happiest woman in the world about to get married to one of the most eligible bachelors in 100 miles radius, the next day she went to threaten a mafia and was accused of stealing an expensive painting and sentenced to fifteen years in prison. This would be a good book in itself if it was just about how Tracy extracted her revenge from the mafia, persecutor and judge who worked together to throw her into prison and from her ex-fiancee who refused to help her and left their unborn baby dead. But the revenge part was so short and the story was more about Tracy's new life as a con woman. While it was fun reading about the genius schemes pulled by Tracy, the fact that these seemingly two separate stories were cramped together into one book was annoying. And the fact that I read this thick book in approximately 24-hour while simultaneously re-watching Shawshank Redemption meant I did not waste time enjoying the style of Sidney Sheldon's writing.Yep, did not like the style of writing. Reminded me too much of Mario Puzo'sThe Godfather. That fast-paced plot and you know, that unnecessarily detailed introduction to other characters along with their background and motives. Only in Mario Puzo's case, he did not waste his saliva on minor characters. Sheldon however had so much ink to waste he ranted about police inspectors which appeared only once, never to be heard of again. That to me, was not fleshing out characters. That was wasting my time. I guess this kind of style is good to sell books. Puzo admitted thatThe Godfatherwas for his drawn purse string, something to appeal to the mass. And Sheldon wrote for television and whatnot before he started writing novels, didn't he?Not to mention that apart from Tracy Whitney, there were no particular characters that I really liked. And I did not even like Tracy that much. That transformation she had from a naive weak young woman waiting for others to save her to what people nowadays called kick-ass heroine was laudable (it was funny how the old Tracy was so gullible that she kept judging people wrongly, and every time she decided she liked a person she would be betrayed). But it annoyed me how the question of moral only sprang forth at the beginning of her involvement in criminal world and after that when she just enjoyed pitting her wits against other smart people, moral just flew out of the windows. No mention about it whatsoever - being a Robin Hood who robbed from greedy wealthy people was justifiable because those people were greedy and bad. Except this Robin Hood kept his acquisition to himself and gave to charity once in a while and could be found spending more money travelling in limousine and throwing out exclusive parties than on the aforementioned charity. Justice my feet. Who gave you authority to be god and judge people's sin?I wished the opposite camp was better then maybe it would be a balm to my soul but no, Tracy's archenemy Daniel Cooper was just eww. Disgusting. Like it would make me happier Tracy did not get caught because those who followed the rule were not nice people. No, it did not. And I must make a mention here that I just hated Jeff Stevens. The combination of these two beautiful smart people who easily passed any obstacles in their path as if they were strolling in a park brought me anything but happiness.And finally, did Tracy never remember her mother? I wished she had, considering how her mother died. The moment Tracy became a swindler all she seemed to care about was looking for the next challenge. Goodbye Mom, rest in peace. Does not matter that you died because of swindlers and now I am a swindler too, but life is full of irony so yeah, just grin and bear it.Fun to be read I suppose but not good for my heart. I can get hypertension reviewing this.