Oh, how I wish this book were an underground boxing match. I've had so much fun thinking up names and special fighting techniques for Brooke and Remington.Brooke "The Washout" Dumas. Weighing in at an arguably lithe 120lbs., Brooke's fighting style relies more on flexibility and trickery than sheer brute force. Having been denied her dream of Olympic gold thanks to an injury, Brooke's had years to save up all her bitter rage and coil it into a tight ball of hate that she's stuffed in "her core". Now she's wound tight and ready for action. Her hobbies are babbling incessantly about inane bullshit, stretching, and making stupid decisions. Turn ons are tacky tattoos, muscles, sweat, and mood swings. Her special skills include an almost unrealistic ability to contort her body (she can turn her head around and kiss a guy on the mouth while in the doggystyle position), and an overabundance of vaginal fluid which she directs at unsuspecting opponents.Seriously, get that woman some Depends before she kills someone.Remington "RageTurd" Tate is just your typical, musclebound gorilla.Ragey's actual size is never stated, but if my impressions are accurate, he's roughly the size of a small barn. Left to fend for himself in the "loony bin" at the tender age of 13, Ragey has learned how to fight, fight, fight his way to the top (of the orgy pile!). His most valuable talent in the ring is his ability to throw out Super Pheromone, which makes every straight female and gay male in a five mile radius stupid with lust. Senses are dulled and inhibitions are destroyed. His hobbies include fighting, yelling, raging, table flipping, lamp smashing, marking his territory with his urine, and sniffing every woman of mating age in his general vicinity. His turn ons are pert butts, "honeyed whiskey eyes", and women with vaginal fluid imbalances.The book itself has its own killer instincts. There are enough metaphors to sink a yacht, and the staccato nearly reachedFifty Shadeslevels. Between that and the term "my sex", I was suffering some serious "bad erotica" flashbacks. Thankfully, there was enough unintentional funny to keep me from completely losing (the rest of) my mind. Some of it is funny because the bad grammar makes it weird. Other parts are funny merely because someone not onlythoughtthem, but thought they were good enough to put on paper. For instance, the first named opponent of Ragey is a guy by the name of Kirk Dirkwood. Why that was so funny to me, I couldn't tell ya, but I did make a note in my Kindle: "Why didn't she just go with Clit Dickwater?"The various story arcs are usually pretty ridiculous. In one twist, Brooke sees her younger sister, Nora, "in the Underground". This occurs during a match between Remington and his arch-nemesis, The Scorpion. Last Brooke knew, Nora was sending their parents postcards from Australia, but alas, there she is on The Scorpion's side of the ring, looking strung-out, pale, skinny...and with a scorpion tattoo on her face.You know where that's going, right? Well, Brookehasto rescue Nora from Snidely Whiplash, and since Remington, in a manic hissy fit, bet "all of his money" that he'd beat Scorpion in the "Underground Championship"....wouldn't it just beso unbelievably sweetif he threw the match to ensure Nora's release from El Scorpio?And now, without further ado..."My legs wobble and I'm left with the distinct impression this man wants to pound me next. With his cock.""He's so close the scent of him tears through me like a shot of adrenaline.""I dip my head and murmur, "Thank you", and quickly leave, and I want to die because I swear to God he just ducked his head to smell me.""I'm still not recovered from seeing him up close, and my blood stream already carries all kinds of strange, bubbly, hot little things.""There is, literally, a ball of fire in my throat...""...and I'm so crazy about this man, I just want to eat him up with a spoon...""...and an entire farm full of animals awaken in my stomach, not just the butterflies.""My head is spinning inside my cranium.""I know. For Sure. One hundred percent to the tenth power."At one point during their second sex scene, Brooke reaches down and feels the slickness of his"bloated crown".There's a part where Brooke goes to see her sister and has to kiss Scorpion's tattoo to get permission to speak to her. Well,of coursehis "goons" take photos, andof coursethose photos get sent to Remington while he's eating breakfast in a hotel restaurant.My Favorite Scene in the Entire Book in 3...2...1"I can't read his profile, but he has gone utterly still. Then it all happens in a blink of an eye."...Yes. He flips...a table.And here's me after being introduced to a new euphemism for 'clitoris':"...and at the first scrape of my nubbin against the rock-hard quad muscle of his thigh...I'll be serious for a minute. I don't understand how anyone can enjoy writing like this. I struggled to get through. The writing was simplistic, repetitive, and amateur, the dialogue was silly, and the corn and cheese quotient went well beyond what anyone would count as acceptable. There were moments when Ms. Evans just abandoned any pretense at actual storytelling. There are at least four instances where the story almost completely self-destructs, and the book left me with more questions than it answered:1. Did Brooke tear her ACL twice or break her ankle?2. Is Pete's name Pete or Pedro?3. Was the tension between Melanie and Riley because theyhadn'tslept together yet or because theyhad?4. Did Melanie go home without us being told? One minute she's there, the next she's not.5. Why did Remington, after an entire books' worth of silence about his feelings, go off forfive fucking pagesat the end about how much he lurves Brooke?6. If a scorpion is an insect, why does Brooke refer to The Scorpion as "the reptile man"?7. What the hell happened with Remington's parents? They showed up to see him, but he refused, and we never revisitedthatmessy topic.8. How did Nora manage to get rid of her tattoo and beat a cocaine addiction in a mere four weeks?9. How is it possible for one man to spend a few million dollars a year? What is he spending all that money on?10. He told Brooke he wants to be her "REAL". Her realwhat? Real vagey boyfriend? If so, mission accomplished.11. Why was thereso muchpoetic waxing about how utterly perfect and god-like and sexy and male and sweet and vulnerable and damaged and FUCK! WHY?!Questions, questions, questions. The most burning question, however, ishow in the name of Blackbeard's glory hole has this gotten so many high ratings????Word/Phrase Count:"My sex" - 35"Sex" - 35"Sexy" - 60"Wet" - 37"Hot" - 80"Eyes" - 384"Scent" - 18"Lust" - 26"Gaze" - 50"Heart" - 103"Love" - 177"Hair" - 90"Beautiful" - 47"My core" - 11"Erection" - 20"Fuck" - 36"Fucks" - 6"Fucking" - 75"Delicious" - 13"Mouth" - 144"Clench" - 28"Clenches" - 33"Clenching" - 8"Naked" - 26"Liquid" - 16"Heat" - 21"Between my legs" - 16"Hard" - 95"Tight" - 25"Sweat" - 13"Male" - 25"Inside me" - 58"Muscle" - 21"Muscles" - 52"Nipples" - 21"NUBBIN" - 2