What. The. Fuck...I know everyone loves it, I can't hide that Iabsolutely hated itEditing again...turns out I have more to say. I can't let it go.DNF at 57% SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS.I....No....I can't, it's just so bad. So bad.Basically the story is Brooke goes to watch a fight. Remy... A ummm man of few words- does that thing of seeing a girl once and being madly in love with her. This is the extent of his character...he wants Brooke and he fights, that's it.So she gets hired as his muscle stretcher (???) and then a few days later goes away with Remy and his team. From the off there is sexual tension, if you consider clenching and twitching body parts tension.At 57% this is all that has happened. I don't even think they had a full on conversation.When I started reading it, it was making me smile! I didn'thateit (that's a lie... I kind of did....but was not offended by it in any way) but I know this kind of book is hit and miss for me anyway. I was expecting to give it a 2 or 3 star rating....This was when I naively assumed the story progressed beyond "Wahhhh, why won't he have sex with me".I'm at a loss to be honest? Did I read the same book? I feel like I missed the point. I was perfectly willing to continue with the book until we started with the mental health thing. Just, no book, that's a cheap trick to use. A very sensitive cheap trick.At that point we leaped from silly bad book, to potentially damaging incredibly insensitive book.For this to be used to add drama is huuuuugely offensive. To be told that he refuses to take medication because it's basically bad to put chemicals in your body and Brooke says "Sometimes the remedy is worse than the disease" What? Who says? I know a lot of people who have taken antidepressants- including myself (See I can admit that here, because IT'S NO BIG DEAL) and it is NOT an easy decision to take them. So for a book to have an alpha macho man be all "me no need drugs" is just wrong. Big fat effing wrong. If everybody with mental health issues was all 'take me as I am' some of them would have a severely impaired life, it's really irresponsible to say things like this. I can't even see how this can be remotely ok.He gets tranquilized at one point (Not even kidding), he is having a meltdown and he is tranquilized. Bipolar should not make him behave like the fucking Hulk, okay? No mention of therapy or other medication- we already know he's against this, but it's acceptable to be tranquilized? Who does that?! 'I have bipolar but I don't want to have treatment until I get 'speedy' (what?) and then my 'friends' tranquilize me and get me hookers so I can fuck the mental illness out of me.' Fuck off book.The clenching every single page....I didn't actually make it through the sex scene but if Remy managed to get inside that overly clenched woman I will be amazed. The woman must have a pelvic floor of steel.I ended up with a nervous clenching twitch. It was just far too much, how can that go unnoticed? She clenches when he moves, talks, fights, eats, sleeps. Every.God.Damn.Thing. She reminds me of my cats when they are in season putting themselves on display like "pleeeeeease sexxxxx nowwwww"The scenting....is not logical, nobody scents, they smell. Brooke- Remy did not scent your hair, he smelled it. God damned book. He scents her more times than he talks to her. Also Brooke, your nipples are just that please don't call them breast tips, Oh my god.Magical writing like this....."My genetically induced mating instincts are at full attention, roaring inside me""My sex muscles clench every time he hits his opponent""My genes and DNA is a natural desire for healthy offspring, and with it comes a desperate desire to mate""Maybe the cramp I thought I was getting in my ovaries was not cramp at all""His hands clench on my hip, and my womb clenches with it so much it's painful and I almost whimper"That's painful writing, man.I don't even know what to say other than what the actual shit is up with this book?!?'Genetically induced mating instincts' sounds like something my man would say to make me laugh whilst announcing he is horny.Crampy ovaries? Clenching in response to being clenched? SEX MUSCLES?I don't even know what to say.Not for me, no bloody way. This book is as far away from my favourites shelf as possible.