Oh, where to start with this book.Perhaps I should begin by pointing out that, according to the back of the book, this *is* the author's first novel (don't quote me Wikipedia, this is his first published novel, I guess).Unfortunately, it shows.So, it's a fairly generic set-up with a Medieval-style community, humans vs. demons, good vs. evil. Blah-de-blah. As is obvious from the title, the primary protagonist eventually carves runes onto his skin to combat the demons and take a stand. As a concept, it's fairly interesting. It just was not very well executed. The pacing was severely lacking. The world-building was heavy-handed. And the inconsistencies in the functioning of this world are just overwhelming.The greatest example of inconsistency concerns the handling of genders. Perhaps because it's his first novel, the author tries to borrow from (a rather sexist view) of history concerning gender roles. That's one thing. But only addressing the female characters in relationship to their reproductive capacity got old. Fast. One of the three protagonists, Leesha, is a young woman who quickly gets caught up in a sex scandal... and then never gets out. If all mention of sex and babies was removed, I don't think there would be any other female characters (okay, maybe the old mentor Bruna), and Leesha herself would only be in it for about five pages. It's baffling just how poorly the author understands women. But even this aside, the treatment of major social matters is just completely inconsistent. Everyone stresses (constantly) that having children is necessary because everyone keeps getting killed off by demons. Okay. Then throwing in slut-shaming for unmarried women doesn't make sense, since the whole point is to just have more babies. Then having almost every woman using contraceptives and sleeping around? What? I don't understand the logic being used here! Then there's the city with the social ranking based on being a mother. This is a pretty solid idea, given the necessity of more babies to eventually fight the demons. It's an interesting take on social hierarchy. Then they introduce the idea that these Mothers are even advisers to the ruler. Well okay then! Aaand that is... all. There's no further development. We never see the women in any sort of advising capacity. The one woman who is supposed to be in charge gets ignored and bullied by a glorified postman. And two sentences after introducing this concept, the characters are bemoaning having to go through selling off useless daughters and remarrying to different women for the all-important MALE HEIR! Why a woman can't be next in line for succession is never mentioned, let alone explained. All we're left with is yes, oh, how important these Mothers are and damn it these useless daughters! I think the author tried to throw a bone with this one, sanctity of motherhood, whatever--it just didn't take. He also tried when he said only women (Herb Gatherers are all women, mind you) were allowed to know the secret of demon-fire, since men couldn't be trusted not to light the whole world on fire. Um, yeah, since when? How is this form of sexism any better? Not only is it showing the ONLY independently powerful women as a bunch of scheming, suspicious, bigoted, man-hating hags, but it's a pretty poor estimation of the male population as a whole. In fact,the men really don't have it very easy in this world, either. It's all "protect this" and "be a man" that. You know, not every person is suited for taking on 8-foot wood demons, and being smart enough to know that means you can live to fight another day. It just doesn't make much sense. Half the population is subjugated to basically the status of incubators--while mussing up their feathers at the idea of single-mothers--and the other half are supposed to be super-manly male men who are called cowards for not entering a fight they, by the way, have no chance of winning without the proper wards (which they don't know). I honestly couldn't care less whether these idiots survive against the demons. Apparently they deserve it for being so stupid.All right. So there's my rant about the treatment of gender. Then there's the plot in general. I understand wanting to give the characters back-stories, but by the end of the book the main protagonist, Arlen, has completely cut himself off from his roots anyway. Wouldn't it have been more interesting to meet him as he was at the end of the book, tattooed and angry, and get to wonder about how he got there, where he gained his knowledge, how he came to be so well-read and -traveled? In the hands of a more competent storyteller, I feel like we would have been given this information a little bit at a time, at appropriate intervals. As it is, there's no wonder. And there's no connection. By the time Arlen becomes The Warded Man, he's like... goddamn Batman. He's a symbol. And a little bit flat. I didn't worry for him at all, and he didn't seem to be in danger. There was no more development of his character. He just... stopped. If you had to use the woman as a plot-device, she could have at least helped show more of his remaining humanity than the fact that he liked sex (surprise!). But to go more on about the plot, the ending just seemed really contrived. It was like there was a certain quota of encounters that had to be met, and they were summarily dispatched. Honestly, by the time the final battle rolled around, I was feeling somewhat bored. And then there's the wards. Why no one would think to use them to build bloody roads, or rest-places, or ANYTHING to improve communication and travel is beyond me. Even if they had to do it warded-brick by warded-brick laying down a path, they had 300 years to accomplish it. That seems like it would be a first freaking priority!What about the message as a whole? All right, all that it takes for evil to triumph is for good men (and yeah, it's going to be men in this series) to do nothing. Fine. I get that. Okay, then, Wardy, WHY the HELL didn't you share the fancy demon-killing wards you learned? It was well-established by your very long back-story that you thought sharing helpful wards (like ones that might, I don't know, KILL demons) was the only moral choice. You had plenty of Warders you knew, personally, who would have been happy to spread that information to literally everyone. Instead you painted yourself up pretty and went to have a ball all on your own. Oh, well done. Yeah, I'm sure the hundreds massacred every night wouldn't have wanted your wards anyway. You prick.Yeah. That just about summarizes my feelings for the Warded Man. He's ultimately kind of a stupid prick. Leesha is just there to jiggle about and occasionally throw potions at something. Oh, and I didn't even mention Rojer. Because who gives a shit about Rojer. He plays his fiddle and demons get entranced. For no discernible reason. I guess no one, ever, in 300 years, happened to try playing music near the demons. Go figure. Rojer was just ultimately so bland. If I didn't have a thing for ginger musicians I'd probably be a lot meaner. As it is, the characters were all fairly forgettable.So, in closing, The Warded Man... is a little bit of a mess.