I don't have much to say for this book. I thought the premise was interesting, but there was something about the execution that just didn't grab me. Like Sandi, I found it pretty preditcable and straightforward. Unlike Sandi, I didn't connect with the characters enough for me not to care.The characters I did like the most were secondary - Bruna, Ragan and Elissa, Master Cox - but after they fill their roll to the main characters, we don't see them anymore. This is has it 'should be', as it were, for it's not their story, but a bit of a disappointment when I enjoyed them so much more than the leads.I think one of my problems is that there are so many plot elements which felt forced - things that seemed over-the-top, like they wouldn't happen, or happen so obviously 'in real life', and that they were overly dramatic here to make a point. I'm being vague to avoid spoilers - but the whole of Elona is one part, and the part with Arlen and his dad when they needed succor for the night, are good examples.I was annoyed by the constant references to the fact that the only role women are really important for is child bearing. I understand that this is a world where people are more scarce than our own, but I got really, really tired of it - especially the fact that no one ever really challenged the notion.And I didn't buy Leesha's reactions towards the end, after their attack on the road. She seemed less of a real person in that whole last section - like as soon as she got on the road with the men. Another reviewer said that Brett just doesn't seem to get women, and maybe that person is right.**ok, some small spoilers - though it's really not a spoiler since it's obvious from the first page**Arlen also became much less interesting as soon as he became the Warded Man. I usually like action scenes, but I got tired of the repetitiveness of them. It was like every fight went the same route - he'd get hurt, be on his last reserves, and then turn the tides and win. It's like every bad 80s action movie. It's the 'Harry Dresden' complex. It can be fun, sometimes, if well written - but I started glossing over the fight scenes, which is rare for me.** end spoilers **Rojer didn't really do much for me at all. Maybe the music thing reminded me too much of Kvothe? *smirks*Anyway - as I said in a status - as I was reading it, I didn't mind it. There were parts that annoyed me, as above, but it was written well enough to keep the story moving along (except, at the end, it jumped time oddly (I mean, it jumps all over the place, but the end was particularly old) and then after spending a lot of time setting things up, it just all end too quickly. There should've been more to the battle at the end. The way that it was presented, there was little to no emotional impact at what was happening.)But when I wasn't reading it, I wasn't looking forward to my reading time. While I didn't loathe the thought of picking it back up, I didn't relish it, either... so it can't really get more than 2 or so stars.(I guess I had more to say than I thought... Perhaps it would've been better if I remained brief. *laughs wryly*)I'm glad that this story is mostly a stand alone - or, at least, that enough is tied up that I don't feel like I have to read the next if I don't want to. I haven't decided, yet, whether I want to or not.