Generic Teen Book on Steroids.Cast of Characters:--Critically Ill Teenwith a heart of gold. Yes, she's suffering but more importantly,will she find love?--Overbearing Motherwho keeps unreasonable tight leash on her 18 year old daughter becauseshe loves her baby girl--Edgy Angsty Hottiewith a heart of gold AND emotional baggage. He has abs, he likes math and man-oh-man can he bat those baby blues.Swoon--Abusive Father- one-dimensional jerk that beatsEdgy, Angsty Hottie'sfamily around. Was given a half-hearted backstory (like the other family members)--Gay Music-Loving Friend, totally accepted by friends, hiding it from family (who I am fairly convinced only shows to check this one off the box) (he literally appears to once, drops some sage advice and is never mentioned again)Essentially...Critically Ill Teen has along-term, incurable immunodeficiencythat essentially imprisons her in her own home.Edgy Angsty Hottie moves next door and does all sorts ofedgy and angsty and hottie things.Crit-Ill-Teen has to decide - will she follow the rules thatliterallykeep her alive? Or will she throweverythingaway for one PG kiss and over-the-jeans-butt-touch?(I think you already know her answer).To channel my (already) long rant, I will limit myself to:the Boy Tastes, the Smex Scenes, the Idiocy of Teenagers and the Cop-Out Ending.The Boy Tastes -cause minty-fresh breath is sooo last yearSeriously,WHYdo all these YA teen boys have tastes?He tastes like salted caramel and sunshineAh yes, he must be one of those guys always chewing on caramels flavored with the sun to get thatextra zingy kissing boost.He tastes like nothing I've ever experienced. Like hope and possibility and the future...more like, he tastes likegerms and diseasesbecause you have a compromised immune system.GURL - why ishis tongue in your mouth??The Smex Scenes -cause nothing says YA like complete incompetence...Look, I know she's pretty isolated, butshe has the internet.She knows how to Google. There are no excuses for moments like this:I kiss my way across the landscape of him. Down to his toes and back up again.Girl. What. Are. You. Doing.And, to top it all off:We are wordless and then we are joined(gracefully fade to black). I am 99% sure it did not go like that. She was probably making another pass at kissing his toes at some point.The Idiocy of Teenagers -it's totally not like you lived with this disease your entire life...right?Critically Ill Teencomplete disregard for personal safety regarding her diseasedrove me absolutely mad.How can you grow up with anincurable, potentially fatal diseaseand not know/stay within your limits? HOW?Everything's a risk. Not doing anything's a risk. It's up to youIt's the equivalent of peanut-allergy-kid nibbling on a reese's PB cup every couple of weeks too see what would happen.Throughout this book, this girl makes one dumb decision after another - it's like...do you even know you have a disease?There's barely anything done to keep her safe.Technically, there's an airlock and a no-touching rule butEdgy, Angsty Hottiestill touches so much of the house and theOverbearing Mother(who's a DOCTOR) seems to disregard even the most basic decontamination rules...I know that the illness is supposed to be second to the romance but to use such a serious illness as a YA plot device? The least you can do is make it realistic.The Cop-Out Ending -I read this much story...for THIS?(view spoiler)[It was all a lie the entire time!She was never sick! Thank goodness because now thestar-crossed lovers can be together.BUT WAIT! There's more.By bubbling this child, she reallydoeshave a version of the disease.It feels like the author was always angling for this andnever intended to have a real endingfor the characters.(hide spoiler)]Audiobook CommentsNarrated by Bahni Turpin and Robbie Daymond - they were pretty good! Enjoyable audio quality at least!Blog|Instagram|Twitter