The only way out of the labyrinth of suffering is to forgive.John Green has established himself a very large fan base of readers, who are very fond of his work and writing.Unfortunately, after reading a lot of his work, I can't say that I belong to that fanbase. Neither his characters nor writing nor plot make me swoon.Alright, that was a very formal way of saying that his books are not for me.Now, let's cut to the chase, shall we?Everybody loves to read a good, ol' raging review about a controversial book. But I'll try to keep this one civil.I can understand why Green's books are so popular, even though I don't personally find them anything spectacular.First of all, I noticed a trend in some of his stories.The leading main character is almost always bland and boring, take for example, Paper Towns or this book, Looking for Alaska. Now, I'm not being a bully here and saying that Green is the only one who follows this trope - but, it's just a little observation of mine. You don't have to agree with me.Following that observation, have you realized that similarly in a few cases, the female is always portrayed as this 'mysterious, untouchable' goddess of some sort?The normal, grey-little-piece-of-paper bloke and the otherworldly queen. I get that when people, especially teenagers, fall in love, they idealize their crush, looking past all their imperfections ... but, come on. This trope is overwhelmingly popular in YA.Okay, now think about this.Imagine a bucket full of paper cards with plot twists, character traits, character interests, events, etc. Now, the way I see it, most of Green's books feel like these little cards have been pulled out at random, and the story was based upon them. It's ridiculous, I know. But, that's just how I feel, okay?Now, let's get to the actual book. Looking for Alaska.If I could describe this book in a few random words, it would be: excessive teenage smoking, teenage rebellion, drinking, unlikeable characters.Apart from Chip. I liked Chip. You rock, Chip.I highly appreciate that Green was trying to touch on some important matters. But, I don't think this book did them justice.Let's start.Plot:This book was entertaining to read, in the way that it's wasn't boring, even though it pretty much had no plot. I won't lie. You fly through it. I can't say that I didn't necessarily enjoy reading it - it was chaotic, and crazy and full of that 'teenage rebellion' jazz.Characters:I felt very little towards any of the characters, especially Alaska. The amount of times her body was described is literally insane - like, Miles, get a grip, stop being fickle. I understand that he thought her personality was brilliant too and at that age, teenage hormones go on a raging rampage, but, enough is enough. Even towards the end, I couldn't bring myself to feel any sympathy for either of them. At one point, sure, I felt a little bleak, but no tears were shed.Writing:The writing wasn't bad. It was very simple and bland, and full of vulgar language, but it wasn't something terrible. As usual, it had that 'philosophical' undertone - when young people try to sound all wise - which drives me crazy. I'm not saying that teenagers are stupid, because as a teenager myself, I think that is the most inaccurate, insulting accusation one can make. But, there's a huge disparity between wisdom and intelligence.Okay, now, I'd like to touch on another matter.Smoking.I'm not going to hide it. Teenagers smoke, and that's something that was and most likely always will be part of our society. That's okay. That's life. Lots of my friends smoke, and whilst it's not something that I want to take part in, as an athlete (saying athlete, I don't mean I'm a professional, or anything), I under where its popularity comes from. Really, I do.But...The characters in this book smoke. A lot.That's fine, because it makes the book seem realistic. Damn it, I'm fifteen and I know people my age and younger who smoke. And, truthfully, that's not something society can magically eradicate.But, the way it was depicted in the book made me mad.Not whilst reading it.But looking back at it now... it was very problematic, in my personal opinion. If you have the opportunity to write a book aimed towards a younger audience, wouldn't you want to make a positive impact?Teach them something.But, in this book, smoking was deemed (in my opinion) 'cool' and, honestly, that was something that infuriated me.The characters smoked so much, and nothing happened to them.They were healthy, and didn't cough at all. No effects, whatsoever. Literally, as though smoking was a chill, harmless activity - not full of nicotine and tobacco.Why? WHY?Smoking is life threatening. Why glorify it in a book?This whole theme should have been handled differently, in my opinion.It should have pushed people away from smoking.Writers can create magic through words. As the saying goes, words have the power to change minds. John Green has a huge amount of fans, spread all around the world, and he obviously must have a talent in writing. If you happen to possess two of these things, why not use them to your advantage?Through a beautiful paragraph, people could feel at least feel some distaste towards smoking. It just should have had a better moral; a better message towards readers. A more constructive message, in my opinion. I understand that these teenagers want to experiment, want to try new things, but come on, there's boundaries that shouldn't be crossed. And, when an author touches upon life threatening, addictive substances, I think it would be only fair if he portrayed the action, as dangerous. NOT AS A LEISURELY, FUN ACTIVITY, RESERVED ONLY FOR THE BEST OF THE BEST. Man...Overall, I didn't enjoy this book. Sadly, it just wasn't one for me. How did you find it?