I am writing this review with minimal profanity; not because I don't have a bunch of in my vernacular, but because I want this review to be taken as serious as possible. Hush, Hush by Becca Fitzpatrick is dangerous. The messages in it, while most likely unintentional, defends stalking and attempted murder under the guise of love.The relationship between Nora and Patch is toxic, but the strange thing is that Nora knows this and yet is still being pushed into being sexually attracted to him. Unlike Bella Swan, who had no rational fear of Edward, Nora is given rational fear constantly. When Patch comes into her house, she says that by being alone he has the perfect opportunity to rape/murder her and it's revealed later that he did indeed plan to murder her and then a few moments later is thinking about how he makes her lady parts quiver.Patch spends this whole book being aggressive and patronizing to Nora, not to mention assaulting her mind. He puts her in uncomfortable and dangerous situations and Fitzpatrick allows Nora to fall for it every time. I can't even blame Nora, because it is obvious that the writer is the one navigating her decisions and causing her to act like a fool. Not once in this entire novel does Nora use common sense in action. Not once. It's disgusting to see how inept she was made in order to make this disgrace of a romance work. When it is revealed that Patch was trying to kill her, instead of running away, screaming and shouting, she asks him if he has a girlfriend. Seriously, what on Earth kind of reaction is that.Nora herself is just frustrating to read because, like I mentioned before, she does realize that Patch is dangerous, that she should avoid him at all costs. Yet, after she says this, she makes decisions that only put her and Patch closer together. Her best friend, Vee is a sham of a friend, who is back-handedly slut-shamed throughout this entire book for one and then tells Nora she's overreacting when trying to find out whose been stalking her. What a great friend to have, a victim blamer...Beyond the simple fact that the relationship in this book was horrible, one of the worst things in her was Patch's motivations. He wants to be coming human because he thinks it's awesome and the only way to do this is to either: sacrifice someone (Nora) or save someone and become a guardian angel. He willingly chooses the first one because being a guardian isn't his style. We are supposed to root for a lead who chooses to kill rather than save because it isn't his style? How can girls root for this guy? Let alone find him attractive. At least Edward has the excuse of being a "vampire" Patch has none, he's simply selfish and would rather treat people as a means to an end.So that's Hush, Hush. The tale of a homicidal-slightly psychopathic angel and a low-self-esteemed teenager who is in love with her killer. Except when you put it that was it actually sounds like something worth reading. This book has one of the worst casts of characters I've ever read, it borrows heavily from Twilight and promotes domestic violence on a level of which is morally disturbing.To anyone who might come on this review and attempt to defend this book, please don't. I respect the right of everyone to like what they like, but while many stories can be up in he air about the abuse by a male lead, Hush, Hush is very frank. Patch attempted to kill Nora many times and only failed because of his one ineptitude. Giving young adults these types of books is dangerous. I know we always say that teens are smart enough to come to their own conclusions and it's true, we are. However, this book trivializes what millions of men and women go through every day at the hand of their partners.Domestic abuse isn't something anyone chooses to get into, they are manipulated and coursed into trusting someone; into believing that they are in love. It is this love that makes them stay. Most of these people are insecure (much like Nora is) and are easily taken in by a more charismatic and mysterious partner. Instead of taking this book and using it to show warning signs of abuse (most of which Patch exhibits), it takes those same tactics which are used to manipulate people every day and romanticizes it.This book is dangerous and irresponsible. I know, I know that the writer did not intend for the messages in this book to be the way they are [because no educated woman would], but she dropped the ball in the worst way.---------------As apology for a lack of gifs this review, I am going to recommend you guys watch Firefly or Michiko to Hatchin [an anime with black people who don't look like stereotypes yay!].