To start with, the film is so far superior to this book it becomes a valuable example in the argument of "instances when film adaptations are better than the original books".There. Ive said it.Moving on.No, his writing is not "good" nor is it "brilliant" or "Gritty" (one of my favorites, usually translates to bad). It is indeed bad writing. Bad from the perspective of literature. Bad when viewed through scope of history and the pantheon of wonderful, eloquent geniuses of the written word. Men who have put a piece of thier soul down on paper and made it dance and contort in order to say something profound about humanity and what it means to be human.Perhaps Palahniuk's ideas are there and that is a separate issue from the writing itself. The writing (and I have to agree with some others who have reviewed this book)reeks of the same gangrenous rot that much modern "literature" reeks of. A debasement of the language down to the point where the 7 percent of American males who read a book in the last year can feel comfortable reading it and not have thier attention spans exhausted within two pages.Oh I compliment Mr. Palahniuks accomplishment. Quite impressive really. He has created a work so debased and and simple, that a whole generation of disaffected, junior-high and high-school boys now can now channel thier collective aggression and penchant for physical harm upon each other into an organized ethos.The truth is sad, because I really do feel the Chuck is really saying something profound about society, but like all bad art, we must question whether the message is communicated accurately and effectively. At its pithy middle, Fight Club is about the search for meaning within a society of artifice. A search that peters out for most as our fear of failing to accomplish our ideals flings us into a life of rote, mechanical (excuse the word)pussy-ship. Fight Club attempts to turn these fears on thier head by begging the question: are our ideals really our own? Are they bull-sh*t?Unfortunately I feel this question is lost amidst the musical screams and thuds of a festival of meat-pounding violence.John Gardner once said:~To write with taste in the highest sense, is to write with the assumption that one out of a hundred people who read one's work may be dying, or having some loved one dying. To write so that no one commits suicide, no one despairs; to write as Shakespeare wrote, so that people understand, sympathize, and see the universality of pain and feel strengthened, if not directly encouraged to live on.