Firstly, let me make it clear that there is actually more than one J M Barrie 'Peter Pan' story (something that I did not initially realise). There is 'Peter Pan and Wendy,' which is the story we are all familiar with (immortalised - inaccurately - by Disney); there is 'Peter Pan in Kensington Gardens,' which tells the story of him as a baby with the lost boys when he was originally abandoned, (which I have not yet read) and then 'The Little White Bird' (which I have not read either), but is a set of stories in which Peter also appears. However, this is the most famous of the narratives and I read it mainly because I was looking for famous pirate descriptions for a scheme of work I wanted to teach to my Year 7s. I know, I am very dull!So...the story is pretty much what one would expect if you have encountered Peter in his many big screen incarnations: Peter encourages Wendy, John and Michael to fly off to Neverland to the Lost Boys. Wendy becomes their surrogate mother and they undertake a whole series of adventures together until they begin to miss home. Of course, there are the famous faces: Captain Hook who captures them all and is always looking to gain revenge on Peter; Tinkerbell who adores Peter and is reliant on the clapping of children to survive; Tiger Lily and her deadly crew and of course the Darling family waiting patiently and desperately at home while their children undertake the adventure of a lifetime.Oh how lovely? What a smashing tale for children? What a sweet little narrative about childhood and innocence? NO! NO! NO! NO! This was a highly disturbing and even distasteful children's tale in my opinion and I can only assume that the glowing reviews it seems to receive are based on the fact that too often we read this book wearing Disney blinkers, seeing what we want to and not recognising its dark underbelly. So what were my problems? (I'm afraid that there will have to be a list as there are simply too many):1. The obvious violence delivered callously and without remorse throughout (I have no issue with violence, but not in a young children's narrative)2. Peter's characterisation - there is nothing appealing about this arrogant, deceitful, manipulative imp, who cares for little but himself and this never changes!(view spoiler)[SPOILER: Tinkerbell nearly dies and is devoted to Peter, but a year later she has vanished and he can't even be bothered to remember her name. This is a sadistic bully who becomes infuriated when his domination of the lost boys fails and is quite content to undertake violence simply for the pleasure of doing so. He is quite content to take Wendy, John and Michael from their families knowing how much the others yearn for a mother and that in the process, they will lose theirs. He even refuses to allow the Lost Boys to talk about their lost mothers in order to maintain his hold over them and his lie that all mothers are silly and horrid creatures.(hide spoiler)]3. The novel begins with Mrs Darling rummaging around in her children's BRAINS...yes BRAINS...to tidy up their minds! Barrie describes: 'Mrs. Darling first heard of Peter when she was tidying up her children's minds. It is the nightly custom of every good mother after her children are asleep to rummage in their minds and put things straight for next morning, repacking into their proper places the many articles that have wandered during the day. If you could keep awake (but of course you can't) you would see your own mother doing this, and you would find it very interesting to watch her. It is quite like tidying up drawers' The implication being she is sorting out their thoughts and removing anything unsuitable like some form of Edwardian brainwashing!4. The portrayal of Mr Darling who can only be described as an absolute buffoon. He is an aggressive and cruel man who abuses the lovely dog Nana feeding her his medicine because he is too cowardly to take it himself and it is this that results in his children being abducted. The implication is that he is a clock watcher who wants an easy life and that his wife has had to manipulate him and her menstrual cycle in order to conceive the second two children that he never wanted! However, when the children vanish, his behaviour can only be classified as bizarre: he sleeps in a kennel even going to work with it as penance. Ludicrous!5. At one point, Barry describes how the fairies return through the forest 'FROM AN ORGY!' And I quote: 'After a time he fell asleep, and some unsteady fairies had to climb over him on their way home from an orgy'. Surely inappropriate and peculiar in a children's novel.6.(view spoiler)[SPOILER: At the end of the novel, we are told that Wendy's ancestor's return to Peter (when he bothers to remember them, such is his egotism) to do his spring cleaning on a yearly basis! Well, what a mother you have become Wendy! What mother would allow their child to return to place of danger and death with some a mendacious creature as Peter knowing there was no way to access them again. Moreover, the implication seems to be that, this is all such women are good for: cleaning!(hide spoiler)]7. In fact, the novel is obviously misogynistic throughout. The message is that all mothers fail and are essentially useless creatures. Peter hates mothers (although his reason is that she abanadoned him, but Barrie seems to blame her for giving up hope and barring the window and having another child after years of his absence, implying that she should have lived eternally with the guilt and blame of his loss and never moved on). At one point we are told, 'mothers alone are always willing to be the buffer' implying it is perfectly acceptable to blame them for everything. Likewise, Mrs Darling, who seems a fairly caring, attentive if vacuous woman, is blamed for the loss of her children. Barrie tells us 'so long as mothers are like this, their children will take advantage of them' so clearly generosity of spirit and loving your children, is a terrible flaw in woman kind. Moreover, the sole function of Wendy's descendants is to become Peter's mother in turn! In short, this is a novel that presents women as useless creatures whose only use is for cleaning, breeding and raising little brats. The only other female figures presented are in the mode of the femme fatale - they seem deceptive, cruel and use their physical attraction to manipulate men such as Tiger Lily who uses her physical charms to rule the Indians and Tinkerbell, who out of female jealousy, gets the Lost Boys to shoot Wendy. So what Barrie presents us with is the disturbing Victorian dichotomy that women are either the angel in the house of the whore in the street.8. Having said this, Barrie actually appears misanthropic as well. He has little good to say about anyone (least of all children).Ironically, the one redeeming feature of this novel is that all the proceeds went to Great Ormond Street Hospital to help fund cures for children's genetic diseases. And for that one admirable action, I give this book a lonely star.Because, in short, this is a terribly disturbing book, written by a terribly disturbing mind - if only his mother had 'tidied it up'!