My overall impression ofInsurgentis mostly bipolar - on one hand, I believe this was the only possible sequel toDivergent. On the other though, I feel almost cheated by what became of one of my favorite YA heroines and series. The latter is the more dominant of the two, and hence the low rating.Firstly, the brave, sweet Tris I fell in love with inDivergentis replaced by an angsty heroine inInsurgentwho is a complete STRANGER to me. What happened to my precious baby?? I realize murder and war and the works have quite an impact on people's personalities, and I canunderstandTris's anguish and depression, but letting it influence everything she does, to the point where she's making rash and careless andselfishdecisions and pushing everyone who cares about her away - that just doesn't sit right with me. I seriously expected more from her.Secondly, I had to force myself to finish this. The plot wasn't boring, but since I was so puzzled by the characters' behavior, I couldn't really bring myself to read this in two sittings, like I didDivergent, and it had nothing to do with a lack of free time. Although I do admit that there were nearly as many "OMG-WTF-just-happened" moments inInsurgentas there were inDivergent, but where I was impressed by them in the first book, I was mostly unpleasantly surprised by them in this one.Another thing I absolutely didn't like? How Four (Irefuseto call him Tobias) never seemed to understand Tris and that she needed love and gentleness after going through all that she did, not somebody to keep pushing her to the limit. After witnessing the chemistry and natural connection between the two inDivergentand how Roth promised there wouldn't be a love triangle, I was sure Tris and Four would become one of my most favorite couples in YA, once they actually got together. But while there were quite a few melty-gooey moments, they were greatly outnumbered by the moments I actually cringed inside by how crassly Four handled Tris.Still, I hope all of the above is just because this was the second book and Roth is saving all the great relationship development and intrigue for the next and final book, because otherwise, I am very, very disappointed with what became of one of my most-anticipated releases of the year.For more reviews, visit myblog.