"Shadow Kiss" left us with Rose on the way to find and kill her beloved Dimitri who had fallen during a fight with Strigoi. "Blood Promise" picks up where Rose is in Moscow, looking for traces of Dimitri. Needless to say, she finds him, but I will not go into any more detail to avoid spoilers.I hate to say it, but I am fairly disappointment by this book. In my opinion, it is so far the weakest in the series. It is by no means the worst book ever written, but the fact that Richelle Mead didn't put much work into it is obvious.Let me start with the positives however. Upon finishing the book I am slightly less devastated than after reading "Shadow Kiss," so here is an improvement. Some action sequences are pretty good. Unfortunately, that's about it for the good stuff.On the negative side, the book really suffers from separation of Rose and Lissa. In this book Mead attempts to have two story lines going simultaneously - Lissa's and Rose's, but neither of them is particularly exciting. Plus, because the series is written from Rose's POV, the difficulty of relaying Lissa's story is solved by utilizing Rose's spirit-bond ability to get into Lissa's thoughts. What doesn't work however is that somehow Rose can not only see what's going on with Lissa at the moment, but she can also "rewind" her experiences and thoughts. This seems like a pretty poor plot device in my opinion. Plus, Lissa's story is rather lame and takes away too much from the final altercation between Rose and Dimitri - the best part of the book.The familiar characters we met in first 3 books - Christian, Mia, Eddie, even Victor Dashkov are amiss. Instead we are introduced to an array of new characters both in U.S. and Russia who don't really serve much of a purpose for the main story line, rather they are created to fill in pages, and it is very apparent.Mead also relies very heavily on flashbacks and memories of Dimitri that were never mentioned in previous books and at some point I started wondering, do I really want to know this much about Dimitri? I already love him and adding info like "he bakes bread for himself because he loves it so much" is not really necessary, in fact it almost kills the mystery around his persona.What else? The story drags in some parts, the "spirit battle" is too confusing, quite a few inconsistencies. Overall, just a lazily written book IMO.I think when the series is finished and we look back at "Blood Promise" we will think that this book could have been easily omitted. Maybe I will feel differently about "Blood Promise" when I re-read it, but as this point I am rather saddened by it...