The Joy Luck Club is a tremendously well written book filled with passion, emotion, and love that arises from family interactions. This book is written in the form of eight vignettes, four from four different women (the mothers) and four from their daughters. This book concentrates on four Chinese American immigrant families that start this "club" for playing the traditional game of Mahjong. The story begins with June Woo who had just lost her mother to an aneurysm. She was chosen to replace her mothers seat in the club with the four other mothers. She always had a rocky and foreign relationship with her mother and through this club and her interactions with her mother's close friends, she unfolds the story that her mother had never had the opportunity to tell. Also, all the different narratives show the relationship between that of a mother and a daughter of the rest of the Joy Luck Club members. With these narratives unfold personal emotions and feelings that they have withheld from one another and gives all readers a inside depth understanding of the mindset of a parent and a child and sees the position of thought in both.There were many themes throughout this book that I found to be interesting and personally touching. First of all, when I had first read the narratives of the mothers, I realized the difficulties of assimilation and adaptation to the "American Life". I had several flashbacks to what my childhood was like and what my parents had endured while immigrating the United States. Additionally, me being a first generation child in the US gave me an understanding of the daughters in Amy Tan's (the author) book. The daughters experienced a totally different life than their mothers and thus the drifting in connection between them begin to increase. But through June Woo and her listening to the women's stories about her mother and about themselves, she received an understanding of not only her mother, but of her own self and her identity.I found this book to be an easy read and of importance to all those with immigrant families or had faced similar experiences because it is, in my perspective, one of the best written books surrounding the theme of cultural boundaries and immigration.