You know, sometimes you should just leave fond childhood memories alone.But I have a hard time resisting any kind of challenge, at least if it relates to reading, so when Karly threw it down (see the thread to this review for her very funny and halfhearted trolling efforts), I felt compelled to go dig out my old copy ofJonathan Livingston Seagull--and it did take some digging--to see if I could justify my then-three-star review.Unfortunately, I can't.This flimsy and fluffy little book was a massive bestseller in 1972 and 1973. It's a VERY unsubtle parable about a seagull who decides that the mundane life of squawking and fighting for food is not for him. He wants to learn how toreallyfly.The other seagulls are not impressed with his stunts and aerial acrobatics.But Jonathan Seagull is brave enough to defy the Flock and continue his search for perfection.It's all very inspiring and affirming and I can see why a lot of people still love it. There's actually a JLS website where people share their "seagull stories" of how they learned to overcome their doubts and fears and truly live, and they all tell each other how great they are. Fly free, beautiful white birds! And that's all fine, as long as you're not hurting innocent people, or neglecting those who need you, in your search to Find Yourself.But this book, as a piece of literature, has problems on so many levels: The heavy-handed symbolism. The simplistic worldview (spend all your time learning how to fly perfectly and all other problems will magically take care of themselves!).And the book tries to be all things to all people. Overcoming obstacles and achieving through your own determination and effort? Yup. Reincarnation? Got it. Christian symbolism? Covered. New Age mysticism? Don't get me started.2 stars, because even if it's on the simplistic and cheesy side, I still find a little inspiration and humor in the pages of this novella._________Initial post:Karly tells me I'm way off base with my 3 stars here, which is based on my teenage reading of this book many, many moons ago. So I'm going to re-read this book (assuming I can find the dusty old copy that is hiding somewhere in my basement) and either agree with her or defend my position.It is on! *cracks knuckles*