The Hunger Games trilogy left a bitter taste in my mouth - the taste of failure, of a wonderful opportunity thrown away.The writer seems to have immersed herself in her fictional world just as much as a high school student would in a tedious, boring homework. Either that, or she is simply unable to focus her thoughts and make the readers actually see through her eyes. The descriptions are dry, the people and the world around them are colorless. It actually feels to me like the story has been censored and stripped down to the bone in an attempt to make it appropriate for as wide an audience as possible.The deus ex machina strikes mercilessly again and again at the already frail realism; the harrowing times when the characters are forced to wait it out in grueling circumstances don't harrow much at all - instead, they are shrugged off with an almost bored "and so the hours and days went by"; injuries always seem to either have an on-off switch or conveniently benefit from "coincidental" recovery periods (which are skipped just as easily with the same forced fast-forwarding); with only a few exceptions, the author seems to get scared and cringe away when reaching violent scenes. All of this finally contributes to the feeling that you're reading a medical treaty written by a butcher with good intentions.Someone said "if in doubt, write about what you know" - so I expected at least a more profound delving into the female psyche; I was, again, sorely disappointed.Just like the right spices in an exotic dish, teen angst can work wonders in a knowing hand, but the story overdoses on it and never recovers. Katniss is one-dimensional and never truly evolves; but since the entire world revolves around her, let's take a closer look. As profound and complex as a Hello Kitty sticker, her opinions and attitudes may change, but only erratically - there is no progress, no sense of becoming. It's beyond me how some women actually see Katniss as a role model - unless your ideal woman is a self-centered, conceited, ungrateful, narrow-minded, sniveling, responsibility-avoiding huntress who never comes to terms with her own survival instinct. The attempt to give her flaws that are supposed to make her human and bring her to life in our minds stops short, instead only managing to make her insufferable, willfully stupid and in possession of just as much female intuition as a weightlifter on steroids.Neither heroine nor antiheroine, Katniss doesn't truly care about anything or anyone but herself and makes a perfect case in point for the selfishness of altruism. Her mother, her love interests, her friends - everyone (including the sister she apparently loves so much) are little more than cardboard figures passing through the background of her life, doing little more than complicating it. In the first person point of view dominating the books we have no chance of actually getting to know the other characters, not even though the Mockingjay's eyes - the whole world is Katniss, Katniss, Katniss. One would think that this might at least bring a solid insight into her own perspective - wrong. The artificial way in which she "misunderstands" situations and intentions only to be overcome by "sudden realization" over and over again goes from being irritating to insulting as the story progresses, only to end up not even being able to aspire to the status of a cheap writer's trick.The love triangle pieces seem to have been forcefully inserted into the books by someone hating men and women alike with the fierce passion of an inquisitor but uncomprehending mind of someone growing up alone in a glass bubble. That's all I'm going to say on the romantic plot, since it's just an ugly mess, absolutely lacking any credibility or coherence.All in all, reading the trilogy felt like I was being taken for a baby in a peek-a-boo game while being force-fed a cheap moral lesson and lectured on what I should feel and think instead of being allowed to actually experience it and come to my own conclusions.I am, perhaps, so critical in my review because I've seen this whole thing done right in the "Mistborn" series. Sanderson starts from a similar idea of a conflicted young girl coming of age in an oppressive environment and ending up at the heart of a rebellion against the powers that be (even the star-crossed lovers angle is there) - but the similarities end here. While Sanderson creates an intriguing multifaceted world, masterfully picks at the organized chaos of the human mind and portrays the struggle of a girl powerful enough to make decisions (even wrong ones) and change herself as well as the world around her on her journey, Collins just ends up botching the job and presenting little more than a tiresome, judgmental, self-absorbed diary of a bitterly crude personality.