Something I need to get out of my head, so here goes: in hindsight, when all is said and done and thought about, when Collins can only up the violence in her grand finale by burning to death a mass of children, I've become simply sad at what passes as "books we actually read and recommend to friends and then make into films." Book One, on its own, was a decent spin on the classic Japanese film "Battle Royale". (There is nothing new under the sun, we can forgive Collins for a remake, certainly, as that's where the money is in publishing and in films: providing the public with a familiar theme, one that will sell books and movie tickets while stupendously produced, directed and acted films like last year's Best Picture winner, 'Moonlight"-with it's brilliant half-hour diner scene of two men sittin' around talking through an issue in the past that has haunted both of them- basically disappears.) Book Two, on its own, was an even better spin (the clock, the love triangle, the beginning of the revolution) on the same film, revealing some pretty smart moves by people on the outside of the evil government and on the inside of this government. Book Three, on it's own, was another, third, but weakest spin on the same film, as Collins was so intent on delivering to readers what they wanted instead of providing a way to utilize all of these smart characters, all who were part of a revolution, and all who could have reasonably come together to a brilliant but bloodless takeover. No, Collins delivered, I suppose, what American readers want most: horrific violence (turning the Capitol into Arena #3) instead of a brilliant game of brains thinking through non-violent options. (I intentionally avoided the third and fourth films, seeing it would have been a tough experience for me.) And even worse, at the end of the book, NOTHING has improved for Katniss: she is back where she started but now shattered beyond hope. Even her mother can't forgive her for the part she played in the fiery finale. Perhaps Collins, at best, was providing to us a lesson: violence and violence and more violence does not lead to peace. But no, I just can't give her credit for that: she went for the $$$ and simply slammed us with truly twisted horror. Sometimes the sum is far, far worse than the individual portions and in reality what we have is The Hunger Games Torture Porn Trilogy. But still, Collins used capitalism brilliantly: I can't fault her for making money as she delivered what America wants to read, to see on the screen, on the news, and even in real life. And to me, for what it's worth, that's just sad.