The last page is turned and all I have to say is this:What for the love of all that's good and pure was this foolishness?...Aaaaand ..... rant!-----When I'm sick - the snotty phlegmy febrile kind of sick - and my brain feels sizzlingly fried, I sometimes turn to easy reading "fluff" to give my neurons a break. Sometimes this strategy backfires and the 'fluffy' book actually tries to break my long-suffering brain cells with its sheer stupidity.It's not even mediocre; mediocrity would be elevating this book to the undeserved heights. It's simply boring, uninspired, ridiculous and poorly executed.------Let me sum up the things that I thought were awful, stupid or just plain ridiculous (apparently my febrile brain likes making lists):# The dumbed-down plot full of holes that relies on pointless withholding of any useful information.Seriously. When there is no reason for keeping the characters in the dark, all suspense goes out of the window. There was no reason why nobody could tell Thomas what was going on when he showed up in the Glade or when he saw the Doors or the Maze.While I'm at it, can anyone please explainwhy the klunky shanking shuckface are the words randomly capitalized?Is the book meant to evoke the thoughts of the German language where the nouns are capitalized? Or was the author too lazy to come up with proper names for places and instead just threw in some capitalization? Foolishness, I say.The frustrating to me approach of never discussing what happened with those who went through the Changing. The lack of curiosity about the only potential exit from the Maze that the boys have found in two (!) years. The pointless doing the same thing over and over again just to come up with the same results, relishing in the special status of the Runners instead of just sitting down to discuss the situation and their findings.# The atrocious unbearable awkward slang.Replacing 'fuck' with 'shuck' and 'shit' with 'klank' for PG purposes does not work when you shove it unto the readers' faces every sentence or so. At least be inventive or make it sound organic, but all that's achieved is sounding like a five-year-old complaining to her Mummy."You're the shuckiest shuck-faced shuck there ever was."I rest my case in the face of this nonsense.# The silver plate on which everything is handed to the absolutely special protagonist.Because Thomas is so special at fragging everything. He doesn't even need to try. Instead, when we need a proof of his awesomeness, the get thesuddenimpulses and urges that are never wrong, or if that fails, simply a quasi-recollection that saves the day. Which segues into my next frustration point:# The lack of any character development besides the-author-wants-it-so approach.The author knows what he wants to happen in this book, and he moves the characters along like checkers pieces, just to make plot happen. The characters are just sorta there, are static, and therefore I could never get invested in them enough to care even when some of them died. Especially when the death of at least one of them was pointless.# The pointless villains and scares that should have been comic relief instead. Yes, the Grievers and the strangely non-menacing way they were portrayed. The Maze that is anything but intimidating (that effect is due to the non-spectacular writing, really). The Changing - oh so scary of experience! - that does not really affect Thomas the Special Snowflake, not even a minor inconvenience.# The pointless vilifying of perfectly reasonable characters for the sole purpose of making our special protagonist even more snowflake-ish.It's poor Gally, who's labeled as a "bully" before he's had a chance to do anything even remotely bully-ish except for staring at Thomas with dislike. To cement his unlikeability, Gally is described as physically unattractive - because in shallow books like this one if you look like a villain, you must be one. Gally, whose distrust of Thomas is perfectly logical (if any of the characters would take any time to think about it instead of singing accolades to the Special Snowflake).# The too-stupid-to-live characters.Seriously. Every few pages my reaction was - really? You guys haven't triedthat? You haven't thought ofthis?? You haven't talked aboutthat???? Ugh.# The action scenes that read like a video game narration.This does not work in real life - even the kind of 'real life' that involves a few dozen of teen boys stranded in a few square miles area where they successfully run a farm, a slaughterhouse and an industrial-size kitchen.# The "big reveal" that is simply told to us, without anyone really earning it.No, the characters do not work hard just to get the pay-off; they get told all that's happening, like a cheap trick.# The absolute lack of any suspense or motivation to help propel the plot forward.No, everything is simplistic, childish and therefore strangely light and unconcerning. There is no depth, no real substance, and no complexity. It's page-filler, easy to read, easy to forget.1.5 stars.Yawn. A frustrated yawn, at that.