When I first started my plan to read all the classics, I didn't have any rules for allowing myself to quit partway through. As a result, I endured the entire 400+ pages of this book, thinking all along how I didn't really care for it. Perhaps inspired by that experience, I now allow myself to give up if I'm at least 100 pages in, which would have improved my "Garp" experience.The first sign I should have seen that this wasn't going to be a good book was that it is "semi-autobiographical" about the author Irving, recounting the life of Garp, who happens to be a famous writer. I know they tell you that you should write what you know, but if the best you can come up with is a writer whose life experiences just happen to match your own, maybe it's time to rethink that dream of becoming an author. I can't think of a single good book about an author's life, and after reading "Garp," I still can't.So you think, okay, not the most original idea for a book, but let's hope that something interesting happens to make it worth our time. Well, Irving tries with that, going from one outlandishly bizarre situation to the next. But after a while, I just found myself not caring. Because whether interesting things happen or not, we have to somehow care about how they affect the characters. And in this book, the characters are either two-dimensional or totally unlikable or both.I suspect that it was part of the author's design that Garp and his mother should be totally emotionless, cold and unlikeable people, showing some of the strangeness of the human psyche. But by making his characters unfeeling robots, he has made me really not care what happens to them. I followed dutifully along, but really was just filling time waiting for the damn thing to end.I was very underwhelmed with this book, both with the unimaginative "semi-autobiographical" cop-out of a plot and with the unlikeable characters. I read the entire thing, but I just felt annoyed with it the whole time. If I were to start it now, I doubt I'd make it past page 100.