Thanks, Satan, but your book recommendation didn't work out that well. Better luck next time, yeah?Along with literally HUNDREDS of other people who read this book, I was completely brainwashed by the stunning cover. I literally walked into WHSmith, looked at it, had a massive aneurysm, and by the time I'd come round the book was inexplicably in my hand and my wallet was thirty dollars lighter.Who knew?Gaiz. I should have known better than to pick up something that P.C. Cast, of all people, "loved loved loved!" P.C. Cast would love love love a piece of broken dry wall if it promised her some publicity.I mean, really. Come on. Just take a look at this thing:"She didn't usually get involved with rocker guys - but then again, none of them had ever pulled the desk next to her even closer, plopped down beside her, and stared at her with eyes quite so green."That's, um...yeah. That's pretty bad, guys. I am constantly appalled by the craft of this book. It feels cheeky, in fact, for this book to just sit there on my shelf, playing coy, flicking its hair like it doesn't know shit. I feel like, if it could talk, it would smirk and say, "Look how many of me there are. There's only one of you."Yes, there is indeed only one of me,Fallen, but at least I have my pride.What the cover of this book tries to tell you is that this is a dark, twisty tale of dark, twisty things with dark, twisty characters that'll make you do one because they're so dark and twisty and awesome.But alas, the characters in this book are no more dark and twisty than the flame guy fromHowl's Moving Castle. (That was a GREAT movie.) They do nothing but wander around, angst, fuck each other over passive-aggressively, whine, angst some more, fuck each other over some more, whine again, kiss like something from a cheap Harlequin knock-off and then BAM! Get on a private plane and fly straight into the core of the sun.Oh, if only I were so lucky.Seriously, the entire story arc of this novel goes like this:Daniel: I fucking hate Luce!Luce: I fucking love Daniel!Daniel: I fucking hate Luce!Luce: Ermagerd,angels!Daniel: *treats Luce like shit*Luce: Ermagerd,angels! *swoon*Luce and Daniel are an absolute catastrophe, the literary Tunguska event, just some sort of vast explosion of shite that annihilates anything within a thousand-mile radius. Not only are they both fuckwits, but they're worse when they're together: Luce becomes stupider, and Daniel becomes more evil, in that he's not just a rude asshole but he's actually seriously problematic and controlling. I'm not sure whose sphincter this "fuckboys are hot and power imbalances are sexy" trope was pulled out of, but it's making merage.It's like this: Daniel tells Luce who she should and should not talk to, makes disgusting gestures at her, talks to her as if she's a piece of crap, calls her stupid, and let's not forget the crowning glory, which is that fact thathe has murdered hundreds and hundreds of incarnations of her in the past.Am I a sap, for buying into this series? Probably. But my copy must have been lacking in dispensedsomagas, because to me Daniel never appears to be in any way SEXY or GORGEOUS or AMAZING or SWEET. He is a piece of shit. He is a poster boy for patriarchal violence. As if we needed any more unintentional metaphors for dating violence in YA.The crux of it is that Daniel is a fucking serial killer. And I for one will not invest myself in a "hero" who has systematically murdered every incarnation of his lover since the dawn of time. And that's what this is. Look: when Daniel kisses or has romantic contact with Luce, she explodes into a ball of flame. Every single time, he knows this, and yet he still pursues her.How is this in any way justifiable?You can call it what you want, but this is the truth. He murders Luce. Murders her. He premeditates his interaction with her, then approaches her and makes advances, knowing that it will all end with her death.Why can't people see this? The male lead in this book is amurderer. Why would you want a boyfriend who is happy to murder you? What is that? Why is that okay? Why is that romantic?WHY?It's not like there was even a halfway decent plot to wrap a silver lining around all that rape culture. There was just a huge black hole of nothingness, peppered with vague references to Luce's black hair which everybody seems to be inexplicably obsessed with and some confusing is-she-or-isn't-she flip-flopping with Penn, who's basically there to fill in the dialogue gaps while Luce obsesses over that fuckhead Daniel. Luce spends about 90% of her time fawning over Daniel, 3% angsting about the bland sub-plot of the moving shadows, and 7% expressing this smug disgust of anyone who isn't Daniel.And what in the name of David Bowie's blouse was going on with the setting? For a reform school, there wasn't much reforming going on. It was basically just a boarding school with some easily-outsmarted cameras pretending to be ominous and barred windows which, when the students are allowed to skip class and roam the grounds, prove to be completely pointless. Why bar the windows if you're going to let students just wander right out of the front gate?And that isn't even the half of it. This book is just so intellectually challenged. It's like that annoying little cousin who insists that one plus one equals window, because they think that makes them cute or funny or endearing.Fallen, you are as cute, funny and endearing as a fungal infection.Really, though. There are so many ridiculous things about this book. The last scene? The principal flies Luce off in private plane to...somewhere, to...some end, with...someone. I actually don't understand the principal's involvement at all. Also, the entire school was full of angels just meandering around making cryptic remarks to Luce. No, it's not as if, as angels, they have anything better to do. They just swan about being so funny, so witty, so mysterious, so hot! Guys, no wonder God kicked you out of Heaven. You are absolutely insipid. And why didn't they realize that the evil megalomaniac villain was just casually chilling in the library? Talking to Luce? They appear to know who the villain is once she reveals herself to Luce, so why didn't they just catch her in the parking lot and stab the shit out of her? Daniel even hangs around in the library. He has actual fucking contact with the person whom he knows is out to kill Luce, or something, whatever, this book makes no sense.I feel like this book has some kind of personal vendetta against me. It wants to watch me squirm. It wants to wriggle around in my hands, adjusting its perfect makeup and snorting delicately whenever I roll my eyes at its stupidity, as if I could simply never understand it.This book is a snob. An entitled, cheeky, overhyped snob. If it were a person, I'd slap it upside the head. This book can go eat a peppercorn. This book can go stuff itself.And just to add insult to injury, my copy smells funny. Kind of like Dentastix. That's cool, though, because after flagellating myself with it once, I won't be touching it with a barge pole.FIN