A more formal review of this book is onmy blogwhich is still new. xD Check it out!Updated: March 9th, 2012.Also everyone,click here.*sigh* A fucking movie. Just what I needed.Luce.Lucinda. Fucking. Price.You'd still stalk a guy even after heflipped you offwhen you first locked eyes with him? Even if he told youSTRAIGHT IN THE FACEthat he didn't wantANYTHINGto do with you.Why? Just...why?I mean, he's hot. I get it. But what the fuck about Daniel Grigori is even remotely close tosweet?Or did you not want sweetness in your boyfriends? Did you actually want to be treated like doormat covered with shit? Maybe you're a masochist, then. No surprise there.You know who was sweet and available and equally hot? You know whodidn'ttreat you like a pile of crap?But of course, Lauren Kate decided to make him the bad guy in the end. You all know who I'm talking about. I was just starting to like him, too.Actually, I do like Cam. He may be the bad guy, but I'd take him over Daniel any day.But seriously. Daniel just pissed me the hell off. And it also pissed me off how Luce constantly stalks him and doesn't have any self respect to just, oh, I don't know, MOVE ON AND STOP TORTURING YOURSELF OVER HIM, MAYBE?He's. Not. Worth. Your. Fucking. Time.I MEAN COME ON. THE GUYFLIPPED HER OFFHERE, FOR GOD'S SAKES. AAAAARGH I'M SO FRUSTRATED. WHOEVER FINDS DANIEL GRIGORI DESIRABLE NEEDS THEIR BRAIN CELLS CHECKED.Seriously though Luce, youcanforget about him and move on, you know? You don't always have to be a sad, whiny bitch that gets humiliated and pointedly ignored by the hot guy. You can just keep your chin up and not give a fuck. Youcanbe better than that.But no. You choose not to be. You choose to be a pathetic stalker that doesn't give two shits that the hot guy is basically treating you like dog poo. And I despise you for that.Ugh. These two are probably one of the most irritating YA couples out there, right next to Ever and Damen.Did I mention how closely this book and Evermore resemble each other?1. Stupid, irritating, obsessive, outcast heroine.2. Immortal, muscular, mysterious, flawless, jackass hero.3. Reincarnation bullshit.4. The chick dies every time they "fall in love".Honestly. The romance really is the main thing about this book that I just hate so much. Luce is annoying and Daniel is the epitome of asswipe. Besides the romance, the characters were just so damn unlikable.Except for Penn. Sigh, she was the only decent character in the whole book. And she just(view spoiler)[hadto get killed off, didn't she, Kate?(hide spoiler)]There was no plot, and the characters sucked. I'm not gonna comment on the mythology and stuff because lots of people already did that and I didn't really care for it.Okay, I'm done. Thank God I got that off my chest.See this reviewhereto see a short, one sentence review that practically sums up my feelings.