*This review has some spoilers for plot!*Just as vampires are becoming old hat in YA literature, angels have swooped in to take their place in the pantheon of paranormal romance heroes--who knew? I was rather dubious of the whole trend (and still am), but boy, do I love me some Old Testament crazy, so I thought, "Let's see what they do with this." Even with my low expectations, I found this disappointing!We begin with Daniel Grigori (whose last name gives the whole thing away if you know your stuff), a fallen angel cursed to fall in love with the same girl every seventeen years for eternity. The girl in question is Lucinda a.k.a. "Luce" Price, who has just entered Sword &amp; Cross, a reform school for troubled teens, after the mysterious death of a classmate that she perhaps caused, but doesn't remember. As soon as she sees Daniel, she's drawn to him, and soon feels increasingly certain they have met before, and she'll do anything to try and discover his secrets.Unfortunately, Luce is a pretty dumb heroine. She spends the entire book mooning over a guy that is mean to her every chance he gets and then mopes around feeling sorry for herself. That's kind of it. At one point she talks about how she knows Latin and French and had a 4.0 GPA at a top prep school, etc. but she sure doesn't read that way! She's not a strong character--she's not feisty, she's not witty, and, worst of all, she's passive. She doesn'tdoanything so much as things happentoher.Daniel and Luce fall for each other time after time, but the author doesn't try very hard to make either Luce or Daniel interesting. Did the author think it wasn't necessary to show why they would fall in love with each other? Both were no more than cardboard cutouts. I don't think they even had a real conversation at all before they decided they were each others' ~true love~. I don't care if they've technically known each other for centuries, make them interesting in this incarnation!I actuallyagreedwith one of the "villains" when she said, "In this lifetime you're nothing more than you appear to be: a stupid, selfish, ignorant, spoiled little girl who thinks the world lives or dies on whether she gets to go out with some good-looking boy at school...I'd still relish this moment...killing you." I don't think that's supposed to happen.Some other things:*The climactic battle--which had no real build-up--takes place off-screen!*The "villain" wasn't threatening and came off more as a simpering monologuer rather than clever or creepy. And he wore gold eye shadow.*People did not smile in pictures in 1854, among other things!*How are some fallen angels on the "good side" and others aren't? Fallen angels already chose Satan over God, no?There are just so many interesting things an author could do with this subject, but it's so flat. There's just not enough of the mythology here to make it worth my while.Oh, but I do like the cover. And I'll still recommend this to girls who likedTwilight...because it still manages to be better thanTwilight.