There's nothing I dislike more than a book that's just downright boring with less than intriguing characters. Oh wait, silly me, yes there is! I can't stand this new trend of shoving shallow storylines into needless series and trying to hook the reader with an annoying cliffhanger. Not right IMHO. This book came across as an incomplete story, where there were many questions left unanswered, and done so in such a sloppy manner that they came across as plot holes. For me, this book was a mental equivalent of a migraine, sound familiar? Sorry, but that's how I felt.The mysterious, supposedly good looking Daniel wasn't squee-worthy or engaging enough to hook me for another few books. Can't quite pinpoint it, maybe it was his hostile behavior for more than half the book that I just couldn't get over. He flipped off Luce when he first saw her? Did I read that right? Why? So contrived. He ran brrrrrr.... too cold for my taste.I think the main issue I had with this book were the outstanding questions I have. For example, can someone please tell me what the heck these shadows, errrr wait, announcers, whatevs... What are those? What purpose do they serve? Were they there to protect or harm Luce? What's the difference between the dark and silver/grey shadows? What is up with Roland? The fires?? What caused them? How come no one cared that Todd died in the fire? What really went down the night Trevor died? What was the purpose of introducing over a dozen characters in the first three chapters when a majority didn't even play a part in the rest of the story? What are the angels/demons fighting for and why do they fight when they know neither side will ever be victorious, according to Daniel? How could finding out the truth physically kill Luce? WT?? My list can go on.This is the second book I've read on fallen angels and maybe it's just not my cup of tea, but I didn't find the concept engaging enough to carry me through for another couple of books. But most importantly, I think regardless of this book being set up as a series, it should still be able to stand on its own and provide the reader a conclusive ending, with just enough intrigue to whet your appetite for more, not have you looking in the back cover for missing pages. Not interested in continuing with this series and I'm surprised I finished this book.