I know that constant cussing makes a critical review look immature and unintelligent... but you know what? FUCK that. A disgusting, awful, jackass-glorifying book like this deserves to be cussed out, especially after I sat through most of it.And I'm going to cuss this book out, in the style of the 'Fuck you' speech from 25th hour. And I don't care how stupid my review is going to look.FUCK THIS MOTHERFUCKING BOOK.Fuck this book, with writing and plot that is so dry that you literally feel dehydrated reading it. And what was the plot? NOTHING was the plot. Nothing happened. Nothing fucking happened. It was just Luce being a masochist and enjoying being treated like crap by Daniel, while she complained that another guy she was fooling around with wasn't good enough for her because he wasn't a jackass like Daniel.Fuck Luce, that cheap copy of Nora from Hush, hush and Bella Swan. No personality, no interests outside assholes, plus she seems to be completely okay with men who treat her like shit. Because nice guys just don't cut it: they have to flip her off for her to gain interest. They have to try to control her life when they barely know her, they have to stalk her, be an asshole to her, and make-out with her in the aftermath of telling her to shut up. Nope, the angry assholes are the sexiest apparently. She goes through most of the book complaining about how much she loves Daniel when all he does is treat her like shit. But when she starts to actually think about that fact all Daniel has to do is 'kiss her roughly' and all is forgotten.Fuck Daniel. Daniel was nothing more than a goddamn asshole. That guy is NOT romantic. That guy is a manipulative, stuck-up, selfish, ungrateful asshole who deserves to be fucking castrated. And fuck anyone who thinks he is romantic and that his actions and behaviour are all justifiable. You also deserve to be fucking castrated.Do you honestly think it's romantic for a guy to flip you off?Do you think it's romantic for a guy to decide who you should date, who you should hang out with, what school you should go to, and where you go in general?Do you think it's romantic for a guy to tell you to shut up after you try to prove him wrong for thinking you are stupid?And do you think it's okay for him to just be able to kiss you to make you forget?If you answered yes to any of the above questions, you need to see a psychiatrist. No joke, go and get a psychiatrist. Because men like that are not romantic. What's wrong with a normal guy who treats you like an equal, with nothing but respect and kindness? Oh that's right, he's not a douche bag who wants to control your life. I'm sorry, how dare I forget?Also, WHY SHOULD I CARE ABOUT HOW AWESOME HE IS AT FUCKING JUMP ROPING???Fuck this book, which has more similarities to Hush, hush than it does Twilight, by the way. Here we have competition between Daniel and Patch for who gets to be the bigger asshole, the stupid girl who enjoys men who treat her like shit and does GOOGLE SEARCHES on them. And random shit happening until the end where random drama and fallen angel shit is thrown in that no one will care for anymore at that point. I couldn't finish this because the slow pace, the dryness and the stupidity in this book drove me insane. When I closed this book I literally shouted 'FUCK YOU' at it.And fuck the person who made the cover, not even bothering to give credit to the original model, who had to find out her face was being used when she saw the book in the bookstore. Who knows how to use stock properly? -raises hand- When you use stock you HAVE TO GIVE CREDIT TO THE ORIGINAL ARTIST AND/OR MODEL OF THAT STOCK. IF YOU DON'T AND DO NOT ASK THE MODEL FOR CONSENT, YOU ARE STEALING.Original pic:http://cait-shoxxi-stock.deviantart.c...Fuck this fucking piece of disgusting literature. I'm sick of seeing abusive romance being glorified as the one true romance. And I'm sick of seeing women in real life using these books as inspiration.ASSHOLES ARE NOT ROMANTIC. IF A GUY FLIPS YOU OFF, TELL HIM TO GO FUCK HIMSELF. AFTER THAT, MOVE ON AND GO FIND A NICE GUY.