Long ago there was an angel. The most sublime of his kind. So much so that he was sometimes called Morning Star. Despite his standing, he was still, of course, considered inferior to the one that created him. This angel decided that it was "better to reign in hell, than serve in heaven" and managed to turn fellow angels against the very being they owed their existence to. With his group of angels he waged a war against Heaven and while he lost and was banished become the first of the "fallen" angels. This angel, this Morning Star became the ruler of his own domain and himself became a creature feared almost as much as God.Lucifer Morningstar, was the first and the greatest of the fallen angels.So how do the fallen angels of the book Fallen compare?*Sigh*It seems like the fallen angels are starting to replace the vampire as Young Adult's "it" creature. However, much like the vampire, people seem to not understand what exactly a fallen angel is or what it means to be a fallen angel. Don't even get me started on Nephilim.I have stated multiple times that I have no problems with writers taking things and making it fit for a young audience, however does everything have to be destroyed? I mean a fallen angel is basically a creature who was exiled from paradise for doing something extremely fucked up. I mean the OG of fallen angels is SATAN!But, enough of that, lets actually talk about the book Fallen.The book is so bad, the cover face-palms itself.Seriously. I at least had someone to root for in the book Shiver. In here I'm struggling to even make it through the book.Basically it's about a seventeen-year-old fool named Luce who can see shadows that no one else can see. Right. One night the shadows attack her when she is kissing this boy named Trevor, burning him alive. Not as cool as it sounds I promise. As a result she is sent to a Nazi-camp under the guise of a reform school called Sword &amp; Cross. Have you felt the symbolism rape yet? Well you will.It is there that she meets her reincarnated love interest named, Daniel Grigori.You felt the symbolism rape that time didn't you? It'll be okay, I promise. The important thing to remember is that it's not your fault. (Hug)However, before Daniel and Luce even speak she is attracted to him, however he proceeds to treat her like a cow-pie, flipping her off the first time they meet. Yet she continues to stalk him, obsess over him and put herself into trouble for him. Remember she just saw a boy being burned alive, she has been stalked by shadows all her life! Hottie just turns that around in an instant.It just irritates me so deeply how Luce allows Daniel to mistreat her throughout the course of the book. Lauren Kate tries to pull a Roman Holiday analogy to explain this obsession, but it fails because, Kate obviously doesn't get why the character of Anne is attracted to Joe in the movie. As a member of royalty, Anne has never had anyone be honest to her and treat her AS A PERSON. NOT A TOILET!The story is just a long, boring rant of her meaningless troubles that perks up at two points, but that wasn't near enough to save the book. The fallen angel part doesn't appear until the end and it is never indicated in the least what terrible thing these people did to get kicked out of Heaven.Also, let me make something very clear: a good fallen angel is an oxymoron.A fallen angel, for simplicities sake, is two steps away from being a demon.Just avoid this book. Seriously. It's not worth the trouble to buy, if you must, get it from the library. At least House of Night has luz, this book was just a series of misses and fail.Final Grade: FLemme explain to you my frustrations with this book with this rant from the main character, Luce.[i]"I don't get it?" she asked. I don't get it? Let me tell you something about what I get. You think you're so smart? I spent three years on a full academic scholarship at the best college-prep school in the country. And when they kicked me out, I had to petition-petition! to keep them from wiping out my four-point-oh transcript."Daniel moved away, but Luce pursued him, taking a step forward for every wide-eyed step he took back. Probably freaking him out, but so what? He'd been asking for it every time he condescended to her."I know Latin and French, and in middle school, I won the science fair three years in a row."She had backed him up against the railing of the boardwalk and was trying torestrain herself from poking him in the chest with her finger. She wasn't finished."I also do the Sunday crossword puzzle, sometimes in under an hour. I have anunerringly good sense of direction ... though not always when it comes to guys."She swallowed and took a moment to catch her breath."And someday, I'm going to be a psychiatrist who actually listens to her patients and helps people. Okay? So don't keep talking to me like I'm stupid and don't tell me I don't understand just because I can't decode your erratic, flaky, hot-one- minute-cold-the-next, frankly-" she looked up at him, letting out her breath-"really hurtful behavior." She brushed a tear away, angry with herself for getting so worked up."Shut up," Daniel said, but he said it softly and so tenderly that Luce surprisedboth of them by obeying.[/i]You're smart? Yet you allow a man to walk all over you. Treat you like shit for days, weeks and then fall at his feet when he says go. After ranting and raving about how smart you where was this in practice? No where, because for all that supposed "knowledge" there is no COMMON SENSE! I'm sorry, but we are not in kindergarden where when a boy likes you he pulls your pingtails!He treated you like crap so what are you supposed to do, flip him off back and keep on walking! If he starts crying about that he did it because he secretly likes you, tell him to come back once he's mastered communication and aiming into the toilet bowl.Seriously, what type of messages are these books sending to young women?