Oh, Lord. There is really no reason for anyone to read the following review. It's not a review at all really, but rather brain vomit, because I so so need to purge myself of this book. And I shall do so with spoilers, cursing, and RANDOMLY CAPITALIZED SENTENCES. So there ya go. Don't say I didn't warn ya.I have never been in love with Vampire Academy. No book in the series has ever warranted more than four stars on my part, and I haven't bought any of them, either forcing my brother to buy it ("I'll promise to pay you back!" Not) or borrowing them from the library. If I had enjoyed this series more overall, as many of my friends did, perhaps I would have been less frustrated with this book. I always saw this series had potential, but instead Mead pulled a Meyer andepically failed.Shouldn't a series improve as it progresses and not make me want to cry anger tears? My forehead hurts from all the headdesking and facepalming I did. I'm not even kidding. I look like John Green did after he failed to follow proper headdesk safety regulations (Only he could fail at expressing disdain for failure). Anyway, my face hurts, I'm a little dizzy, and I've been stuck trying to finish this book for a week now and its all Richelle Mead's fault. That's damn right. I'm a victim.In the first VA book, I thought Rose Hathaway was a little immature, but refreshing because she could take care herself when most YA heroines can't even tie their own goddamn shoes without complaining. But in the end, she turned out just like the rest of them: self-absorbed and as annoying as hell. This isn't passive dislike either. I actively hate her. Over the course of the novel I have called her every name in the book, and I am one bit of "Rose-logic" away from tearing apart this novel with my teeth. Rose is justinsufferable. She very well might be the most FRIGGIN ANNOYING PERSON IN EXISTENCE. Hey, Rose, ever hear of a little thing called "humility"? Oh, I'm sorry, is it not badass enough for you? Does it undermine your awesome hero epicness? I guess so.Rose needs to get frickin over herself. God, even thewritingwas pompous, using phrases like "clearly" and "obviously" like a four year old uses lip-gloss. She is completely self-absorbed and condescending towards others, looking down on those who didn't meet her standards of badassery. And seeming as everyone except Dimitri and herself failed to meet this standard, she was looked down upon people a lot. OMG. If I have to hearone more wordabout her super-special guardian abilities, I shall shoot a leprechaun in the nads. No, no, no. She couldn't just watch and participate in a conversation like mortal beings. She had use her guardian training which would scour facial expressions and hidden movements, picking up details that us weak and untrained humans would miss, pointing out the obvious as if she just won the Nobel Peace Prize. Nothing could ever just happen with her. It had to be action-y in some way. She didn't think, ideas "hit her". Everything was done "without a moment's hesitation" and with force. It was just obnoxious. I could go on and on, really, about all the sentence that annoyed me on every page, but I have feeling this review is already tedious.In this book, Rose is kind of like a less-awesome version ofLeeroy Jenkinswithout the chicken. In real life, Rose, people will not just succumb to your awry plans then pat you on the head afterwards for your impulsivity after everything has gone annoyingly right. In real life, dragons kill you.Rose just has no consideration for others. She always thinks her way is the best. Forget the lives she ruins along the way, she's "putting them first" and isn't that what matters most? Hardy har har. Tell that to Jill (who you didn't even ask) and Christian (who you didn't even consult with). You didn't mind hurting them, did ya, Rose, as long as you had your dramatic reveal? BTW, who the hell let her near a microphone again? Come here so I can punch you.Back at the court, I felt like everyone was the Mystery Gang, except without the banging van and Scooby-Doo. What is the Mystery Gang without Scooby-Doo? A bunch of tools, thats what. They had no personalities of their own, just working as pawns in Mead's little game. Even my poor, sweet Adrian was glossed over.Do. Not. Get. Me. Started. On. Adrian. God, Rose is SUCH A BITCH. *rude gesture rude gesture rude gesture*Dimitri, you turned out to be a real prick, ya know that? I've never really liked you but now I really don't like you. Lissa, aren't you just the perfect little queen? *gags on bile* All the rest of the characters aren't really important enough to discuss individually.Oh, and I'm also really pissed at what Mead did to Tasha. First she makes a character who not only has a social stigma but also a physical deformity, makes her out into this crazed activist, and then turns her into this petty character who kills to get her guy. Bad form, Mead. Bad form.Another thing I found annoying was the constant back-and-forth between Rose and the court. Not only does the "bond" being such a blatant plot device really bother me, but it seemed Rose would be in Lissa's head for hours. Hours! Doesn't Rose being like the ADHD's five-year-old that she is, get a little tired of that? I know this book was mostly stalling, but she seemed to waste a lot of time.There are many and plenty of other things I hate about this book, but I am done typing. Overall, I hated it. I will not be reading Mead's next series, Bloodlines, for she is clearly only looking for money at this point, as evidenced by her unoriginal prose, glaring typos (it is "though" not "thought"), and tacky loose ends. I am just so annoyed. In the end, Rose got everything she wanted, unscathed.One more thing. The cover? Total porn star look. Every person I asked agreed with me. I was embarrassed to be seen reading this due to the sucky content, melodramatic title, and Miss Pouty Lips.