I was originally going to give this three stars because of lingering fondness for this series plus the fact that despite stupid plot threads, it did jump quickly enough from point to point that it wasn't boring, per se. But then I thought about it harder and got extremely angry at the book and author and so docked it a star. EDIT: Screw it, I'm still angry about the ruination of this series a day later. It's down to one star.I defended this series. It had a cheestastic premise and horrible, horrible covers and I defended it. "It might sound lame" I protested "but this Mead really knows how to keep you hooked. And I love Rose and I love Dmitri and I will be so happy for them to get their happily ever after!" And then this book happened. When a book manages to make you disgusted with (1) the heroine (2) the hero (3) them as a couple then you know something is wrong.Why I now hate Rose: Rose has always been flawed. That's what I loved about her. She was a rebel, a troublemaker, a flight risk. But she also had a good heart and she wasn't kill-me dumb. In book 2, it even looked like she was maturing. She was NOT running off to hunt evil Strigoi (though she does run after her friends who did). Even her friend comments that she is being more rational than before. And after everything that's happened to her (killing Strigoi, watching her friend die, having to kill the love of her life, etc.) sheshould havecontinued that emotional growth. Instead she is so irritatingly dumb, selfish and thoughtless in this book I stopped caring if she lived. She gets whisked to safety by Dmitri and Sydney and what does she do? Whines about how boring it is and runs off into the wilderness...with no money, no contacts, nothing and with all the forces of the Moroi kingdom trying to kill her. Why? Why can't she form a plan that lasts beyond her immediate gratification? Also, she treated Adrian like absolute crap, came up with preachy reasons for why this wasn't her fault and really only felt bad because he called her out. When Dmitri keeps protesting that they can't be together she can't see any possible reason why they couldn't hook up, because the old problems (she was too young, he was her teacher, they had to focus on Lissa) weren't true anymore. Dmitri has to remind her, several pages later, thatshe had a boyfriend. She in fact forgets about Adrian for long periods of time and only finally breaks up with him to his face because he confronts her. Rose, I'm sorry Mead turned you from a character I loved into a whiny little brat. RIP, Awesome Rose.Why I now hate Dmitri: Mostly because he keeps telling Rose how awesome she is when she has turned so rancid. Also, because despite all his talk about honor, he STILL hooks up with her while she is with Adrian.Why I now hate them as a couple: I didn't even care when they got their happily ever after. I really, really didn't. And after how much I loved the Dmitri/Rose ship earlier, that is horrible. I just hated Rose so much in this book and Dmitri was such a shadow of his former self, I just couldn't bring myself to care.My favorite characters in this book by far were Adrian and Victor Dashkov, mostly because they seem to be the only characters willing to call Rose out on her bullshit. It's sad when I like the villain so much more than the heroine.Mead continues to be badly in need of editing. What was the point of the Keepers? NONE! They didn't show up again. They didn't DO anything important, they didn't have any important plot-related information. They just took up a good chunk of the beginning part of this book, for no rhyme or reason.And all the giant plot holes of the earlier book did not get answered. WHY ARE THE STRIGOI SUDDENLY WORKING IN GROUPS AND USING HUMANS!?!?!? Whenever we see Strigoi it does not seem like they have problems organizing. Dmitri apparently had a great Strigoi network working for him. So why was everyone SO surprised in earlier books when groups of Strigoi attacked? I always thought we'd learn there was some amazingly powerful spirit user controlling them or some badass Strigoi had grabbed power and was forcibly organizing people. But nope, no reason. Same with human help. All the Strigoi encountered make it seem like it's no biggie that humans do things for them. There are even conversations (mostly inBlood Promise) about how humans work for Strigoi. So why inFrostbitewas everyone freaking out about the possibility? Was there never a good answer or after the third book Mead just got lazy and stopped trying to be coherent?There's apparently a spin-off series (Bloodlines) which I don't think I'll even read. Mead has ruined this series too thoroughly.