UNPOPULAR OPINION TIME. Sorry folks.Meet the characters:Sara aka the Little Princessis described as (and I'm only using words specifically written in the book): thin, pale, with striking green eyes too big for her face (now I know where so many YA heroine's descriptions come from LOL), clever, good, serious, quick at her lessons, proud, brave, generous, hospitable, unconquerable, amiable, good-tempered, having good manners. She speaks fluent French, though she'd never learned it. She also speaks fluent Hindi.Sara's fatheris described as young, beautiful, nice and clever.Ermengarde (aka Sara's best friend)is explicitly described as: fat, stupid, not clever, having a slow little mind, vulgar, forgetful and forgettable.Lottieanother one of Sara's friends, a young child. She's also fat and stupid, but also ill-tempered and capricious, prone to throwing tantrums.Beckie aka the servant, another Sara's friend. She's always described as poor-poor-poor Becky. Also stupid.Lavinia aka the nemesisis described as horrid, nasty, priggish, sneering and jealous.Miss Minchin aka the headmistressis described as rude, acid, harsh, domineering, hard-hearted, mean, vulgar. Also, she doesn't know French and doesn't try to learn it, being the headmistress of a top school for young ladies in XIX England. Hmmm....Cookis described as vulgar and insolent.Beggar girlseen on the street: with a stupid look of suffering, frightful, little ravening savage, poor little wild animal.Do you see a pattern here? I do.1) Sara is a total Mary Sue, so is her kin (dad). They are oh-so-clever (even though Father never set aside any of his money for his daughter in case something happened, didn't even pay her school forward for even a day. Is that very clever?)2) Sara's friends are all fat and stupid, and their only redeeming quality is the fact that they worship her and trail her like puppies with unwavering loyalty and admiration.3) Sara's enemies are all dumb and rude.Do I have to say I didn't adore a book with such characters?WHAT ABOUT THE PLOT?So. Sara is awesome and rich. She briefly becomes poor but stays awesome. Her friends continue to worship her, her enemies expose their shallow, awful true natures. Then Sara becomes rich again, remaining awesome as ever, and punishing all who were mean to her.Yup, Sara never changes in her awesomeness, she doesn't need a character arc. Instead, the whole world around her makes an arc. Brilliant.Don't even get me started that a child who has always been given all she wants, has never heard the word "no" and had -literally- servants and slaves at her beck and call - isn't spoiled, but is instead wise and teaches her wisdom to the adults around her. Sure, because wisdom isn't something you learn through error and hardship. You're just born with it, if you're a true Princess inside.WHAT MADE ME WANT TO GOUGE MY EYES OUTWas the complete and unwavering snobbism of Sara and the author."It's not your fault that you are stupid"- says Sara to her BFF Ermengarde. How nice and kind, right?I tried not to be a princess. I tried!- but failed. Who could blame you, Sara?I can give buns and bread to the populace!- says Sara exuberantly, when she becomes rich again."You couldn't look like a street beggar, you haven't a street beggar face", "...clothes to make her look somehow like a servant"- um, so what is a "beggar face" and what do servants look like? Not like humans, just in different clothes?Everyone keeps beating themselves up about how much Sara is working (at the time she is poor), but no one pays any mind to Becky, who is of comparable age and actually works more and also harder. Sara deserves all the sympathy, because she used to be rich, you see! The whole London filled with hungry children working way too hard is of no concern. Because they look like servants and have beggar faces.Miss Minchin is portrayed as some sort of monster, because she made Sara work when she turned from crazy rich to a beggar. Sara is in fact indebted to Minchin, because not only did her father not pay forward, he also didn't cover some large bills. Minchin does a good thing not throwing Sara out and also adapting her to a change of station. Because her station is indeed very much changed. What should she have done? Ignored reality, to make Sara face it later, even more harshly? Sure, Minchin could have been softer to a child who's just lost her father. But of course, the author wouldn't have that.So I absolutely HATED every page of this book.As I hated Little Women and Black Beauty, as a matter of fact. Maybe catching up on children's classics I haven't read is a bad idea.