All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others.Okay, this is why I avoid "great literature."I get that this is an important novel, butgoodlawd. I did not enjoy it.A Big Effing DisclaimerJust because I don't like a novel doesn't mean I didn't "get" it.Is this novel important? Yes.Is it a brilliant allegory? Sure, if you read enough history to pick it apart.But is it a good story? This is where I'm diverging from the group. I (personally) did not enjoy reading it. My rating/review reflects that.I'm no longer in any English class, therefore I'm under no obligation to pretend to enjoy the book.I agree it is important, that it sends an essential message but that doesn't change the fact that I didn't like it.But this is only one opinion, and my interpretation may differ from your (equally valid) view on this novel.Farmer Jones,a mean old bastard, owns the Manor farm where he keeps his animals (a variety of pigs, sheep, cows, etc) essentially in enslavement.He doesn't take particularly good care of these poor creatures and (as a result), they begin to consider some very...interesting ideas.Man is the only creature that consumes without producing. He does not give milk, he does not lay eggs, he is too weak to pull the plough, he cannot run fast enough to catch rabbits. Yet he is lord of all the animals. He sets them to work, he gives back to them the bare minimum that will prevent them from starving, and the rest he keeps for himself.Led by Napoleon and Snowball, two pigs, theanimals form a revoltand soon take over the farm for themselves.They have a list of rules, a set of standards and a few catchy sayings.Four legs good, two legs bad.But, as things often do,everything goes south.Napoleon takes over and runs Snowball out of town.Soon their peaceful, and idyllic, barn is in upheaval. Animals are dying left and right. Everyone is quickly turning to violence, andsoon there might not be anyone left at all.The only good human being is a dead one.Without further ado -this book sucked.And no, being a brilliant allegory does not excuse it for being a sucky book.I suppose, I could go into more of an analysis mode - break down this and that...relate it to the allegory and compare against the real-life events....but I'm no longer in any sort of English class, so I'm under no obligation to write anything deeper for my analysis.I absolutely loved itwhen all the animals were working together and helping each other live their best possible lives...and when things went south,oh did I hate this book.To put this into context - 1984 was really well done. The characters, the narrative, etc. Even if you took away any of the main themes, you are still left with a great story.Animal Farm... not so much. Without the allegory, it feels flat to me.So much needlessdeath and destruction.So much hate and violence.All without a valid reason or cause.(Yes, there is a reason if you look into the allegory, but without knowing that the audience is left in limbo.)Characters are introduced solely to kill them off, and my heartstrings were yanked here and there without any payoff.It felt like George Orwell just threw the characters around cause he wanted toforce a narrative on his audience andI absolutely hated it.10/10 would not recommend.Blog|Instagram|Twitter