1.5 stars"I didn't want to be royalty. And I didn't want to be a One. I didn't even want to try."Let me tell you a story.Once upon a time, a girl who doesn't think she's pretty and has jackshit ambition is suddenly elevated to a Chosen One status. She gets to live a palace where she's waited on hand and foot as well as gets a makeover and pretty dresses. During her time, she slowly finds herself falling for a handsome boy in a position of power, but her heart is still with her scruffy low-class boyfriend back home.Just when she's resigned herself to the knowledge that she'll never see him again, he suddenly crashes back into her shiny new life due military reasons. She finds herself torn between the two boys, torn between her old life and her new.Sound familiar? Yup, it'sShadow and Bone.To be fair, the whole rags-to-special-snowflake plot is commonplace in literature. But whereasShadow and Bonehad creative fantasy elements and the ending going for it,The Selection has precious few redeeming qualifies.Our protagonist America Singer isdull, bordering on unbearable.Looking past the fact that she's named after her career like a Smurf, she's your typical YA heroine who doesn't think she's pretty (even though she totes is) and doesn't want to be special (even though she totes is).I never got over the way she body-shamed her mother:"For a Five, she was a little on the heavy side, which was odd. She wasn't a glutton, and it's not like we had anything to overeat anyways. Perhaps that's just the way a body looks after five children."Someone pointed out to me this passage was supposed to illustrate the caste system and how the lower classes are always hungry, thus, thin. If it is though, it's a piss-poor way of showing it. What about something like, "The weight of birthing five children had taken a toll on my mother. She was heavier than most members in our caste, who looked perpetually starved from inadequate food." It invites us to sympathize with America's mother while communicating the caste issue.The writing's largely to blame becauseit's shit.It's not awful, but it's too far from the neutral line to praise. Too many sentences start with "I", and it's overly simplistic and dotted with tells instead of shows (i.e. I knew she felt embarrassed for me, I knew she was sad, etc).While there's thankfully less girl-hating than I expected, the Selection still features thetypical Mean Popular Girl and has unnecessary commentary on cleavage and too much makeup.It emphasizes the "natural" look, which, when put together with the slut-shaming, inclines towards exclusion rather than celebration of self-love.America's belief in a support system among her female competitors as opposed to war is a stroke of feminism I didn't anticipate, but it's overshadowed by the book's lack of other prominent female characters. When you really think about it, it's just another way to show off how sweet andspecialshe is.And I never thought I'd encounter a literary love interest I hated more than Jeb fromSplintered, but here he is in all his "me man, you woman" caveman glory.Aspen is a flaming dickwadand can fall into a volcano for all I care. He literally says a man's job is to provide and then blows up at America because she dared to do something nice for him using her own earnings. There's also the whole leery domestic framework surrounding their relationship, like how she's the good wife in the kitchen and he's the breadwinner going out to bring home the bacon.Because The Selection was published during YA's dystopian wave, it has to be a dystopian, with rebels and poverty and class differences. Aspen is basically Gale 2.0, the oldest and caretaker of his family. Yet it's heavily romance-focused.I personally think theseries would have worked better in a fantasy setting.To quoteanother review, dystopian is a genre that doesn't need to be fluffed up.The rebels have no impact on the plot at all.They pop up every now and then to remind readers that they exist, add some pointless tension, and then scuttle off without doing any real damage.The Hunger Gameshas its own "Selection" storyline, but managed to convey a thoughtful message on celebrity culture. The Selection has no such nuance.World-building is non-existent, so maybe it wouldn't be a good idea to make The Selection a fantasy novel.In the end, Gale 2.0 promises to fight harder for America (through very cheesy dialogue), hence, setting up the angsty love triangle inThe Elite. Ultimately, The Selection is like reality TV. Inane, gossipy, and profoundly pointless.But what did I expect from a book inspired by The Bachelor?My review of The Elite