*slightly ashamed face and twisting of foot in the dirt*So I didn't actually finish this book. I was looking forward to reading it and it has been on my bookcrossing wishlist for a while but when it finally arrived I found that the anticipation had outweighed the the delivery of the end product to such an extent that I gave up. Shame on me? Well maybe.I read all the Narnia novels when I was a child and my parents never told me that it was all metaphorical, allegorical and many other -als for Christianity. This seems like a strange oversight as my mother used to go to Church every Sunday and she had read the Narnia series too so I'm assuming that she must have picked up on it. My Dad only went to church because he was made to go and he liked to sing hymns really badly, loudly and out of tune to amuse myself and my sister. This amusement was only normally surpassed by the arrival of the Vicar from the wings.I believe the hidden bit at the side of the church is actually called the vestry, but church was always like a sort of theatre for me with people dressing up and fulfilling roles not always truly representative of their actual selves. The Vicar himself was not overtly funny but the fact that he looked exactly like Alan Rickman provided me with great scope for reciting endless chunks of script from Die Hard which was then, and still is now one of my favourite films.The Screwtape letters are a series of epistles sent down (or up, I suppose) from a Senior Devil, instructing a more Junior Devil on the art of temptation in order to bring about the downfall of one specific individual who they call "the patient". The cover of the book shows an ugly gargoyle style grotesque, presumably as a representation of the devil. It strikes me that should demons and devils choose to pretty themselves up and present a more aesthetically appealing canvas then they would probably have a lot more success. Note to Satan: if you recruited your tempters and temptresses at Hooters, the Playboy mansion and wherever Daniel Craig and Jensen Ackles hang out, then you'd probably increase your success rate quite noticeably. Jensen I will do whatever you tell me to. That goes for you too Daniel.While CS Lewis tries quite seriously to highlight in the letters, the areas in which sin can accidentally come upon us, the general tone is a little to meek and mild but that can probably be attributed to the period in which CS Lewis was writing. When it came down to it there just was not enough devilment for my liking (I suspect Screwtape would find me to be an all too easy convert).On reflection I'm not really sure why I would have expected stories of unparalleled lusts and evil from the man who wrote The Chronicles of Narnia; those cuddly childhood tales of resurected (christ-like) lions and snowy wardrobe strewn landscapes where turkish delight is the equivalent currency to 30 pieces of silver. I am sure Senior devil, Screwtape, is offering sage advice to the trainee tempter Wormwood but his letters were too amiable and samey and without enough fire and brimstone to hold my attention.