Okay, I'm going to be posting gifs on this review because this book was just too much.My overall expression after reading up to 150 pages:I wish I could give this 'no star' or something of the sort. I don't even know where tobeginwith this 'book'. It was retched, horrible, disdainful, etc. etc. P.C. Cast as well as her daughter's writing is childish. All the girls had blonde hair (auburn-blonde, strawberry-blonde, blonde, curly blonde, etc.) it's irritating and the only girl, besides Zoey, that didn't have blonde hair was Shaunee... and she was black.I don't care if this book was completely fiction and that it didn't have to be realistic, but when you write how the reason these celebrities are amazing and known is because they're vamps, I'm going to say you're an idiot. Zoey is the biggest hypocrite and I never liked her, not even for a bit. My friend told me she dated four boys at once. Wasn't she shit talking girls in this book for doing stuff like that, though? I want to scream.This book had:Annoying teen girls.Ridiculous passages.Try-hard humour....Shall I continue?Offensive and ridiculous passages:'...One was black, with impossibly long hair (must be a really good weave)...'These authors see black women with short, crappy hair? And if they do have long, beautiful hair it's automatically a weave? How rude.'...the Mark had somehow made my eyes look even bigger and darker. I lined them with a smoky black shadow that had little sparkly flecks of silver in it. Not heavily like those loser girls who think that plastering on black eyeliner makes them look cool. Yeah,right. They look like scary raccoons.'Loser girls? LOL, okay.'"Is that a bathroom?" I asked as we hurried past water fountains situated between two doors."Yep," she said. "Here's my class, and there's yours right next door. See you after class!""Okay, thanks," I called.At least the bathroom was close. If I had a case of raging nervous-stomach diarrhoea I wouldn't have to run far.'Really? That very last sentence really was not needed. They could have at least wrote, 'At least the bathroom was close in case of an immense emergency.' or something like that.'I've only had detention once so far, and that wasn't my fault. Really. Some turd boy told me to suck his cock. What was I supposed to do? Cry? Giggle? Pout?Umm...no...So instead I bitch-slapped him (although I prefer just using the word smacked)...'If you prefer using the word 'smacked' then maybe you should have done? 'Turd boy'?'"So, what preconceived notions do you have about Amazon warriors?" she asked the class.A blonde who sat on the other side of the room said, "The Amazons were heavily matriarchal, as are all vampyre societies."Jeesh, she sounded smart.'No, she just paid attention in class.'I had no idea an hour had passed; the ringing bell was a total surprise. I'd just shoved my sociology book back in my cubbie (okay, I know that Damien and Neferet called themcabinets, but come on -- they totally remind me of the cubbies we used to have in kindergarten)...'Oh, God...'The door opened anoh my sweet lordI do believe my heart totally stopped beating. I'm positive my mouth flopped open like a moron. He was the most gorgeous young lad I had ever seen.'LOL.'"yeah, like having poopies for brains," I said, staring down the hall like the slug's back.'I don't know what she's trying to prove using the word 'poopie'. Who even says that?'Lunch was a huge build-your-own salad buffet, which included everything from tuna salad (eesh) to those weird mini-corns that are so confusing, and don't even taste like corn. (What exactly are they? Baby corn? Midget corn? Mutant corn?''The whole place had that sawdusty, horsey smell that mixed with leather to form something that was pleasant, even though you know that part of the "pleasant" was poopie -- horse poopie.'Nobodyfinds the smell of 'horse poopie' pleasant.Nobody.'"Zoey! There you are!""Ohmygod! Stevie Rae! You scared the poo out of me!"'Lord, help these so-called 'writers'. Please.I dropped the book after that. I'm done. Irefuseto finish this book. Everyone thinks Twilight is bad? Twilight doesn't have a damn thing on this crappy excuse of a book. The writing of this 'book' makes Twilight seem as though it was perfectly written (okay, I'm over-exaggerating a tad bit, but it's still better than this. At least I read through the whole book and that's saying something. Am I right, or am I right?) I mean, really, the average user rating for this is 3.83 stars? WOW. Just WOW.Let me also add that these authors think they've done an amazing job with sounding like teenagers.... riiiiight... keep telling yourselves that.