If you were looking for books that embody rape culture , slut-shaming and overall being a terrible human being - this book is for you .Look no further than some of this creative narrative.Her body was, well, perfect. She wasn't thin like the freak girls who puked and starved themselves into what they thought was Paris Hilton chic. ('That's hott.' Yeah, okay, whatever, Paris.)First of all , you should never make fun of people with eating disorders. I have an issue with making fun of serious issues , but it's only because I want to shred light on an issue. To publish a book , with a person speaking like this is not only rude , and ignorant but leaves a bad impression to the young women who read this.Actually, instead of being afraid, it was more like I was an observer, as if none of this could really touch me. (Kinda like those girls who have sex with everyone and think that they're not going to get pregnant or get a really nasty STD that eats your brains and stuff. Well, we'll see in ten years, won't we?)I doubt there's a teenager alive today who isn't aware that most of the adult public think we're giving guys blow jobs like they used to give guys gum. That's bullshit, and it's always made me mad. There are girls who think it's 'cool' to give guys head. Uh, they're wrong. Those of us with functioning brains know that it's not cool to be used like that.While , I agree that teens shouldn't have sex. I am at no position to degrade another person for getting more game than me. That's what men are for . Men already give enough shame to women they sleep with. Before calling someone dirty , just look at the filth on your hands. Stop Slut Shaming. Stop it now . I am not a slut for wearing a short skirt. I believe that women are more than their bodies. And you should teach young pre-teens that what you do with your body , is your business.They were talking quietly and acting like the totally illegal marijuana incense was no big deal. (Pot heads.)No offense, but Zoey in this situation - they are using it as incense. For religious reasoning .THIS BOOK CONTAINS RAPE - AND PORTRAYS IT AS BEING OKAY TO FORCING ANOTHER PERSON INTO A POSTION THEY WOULD RATHER NOT BE IN. BUT BECAUSE IT'S FEMALE ON MALE , IT IS BEING SHOWN AS OKAY. THIS IS NOT OKAY . LET ME REPEAT . YOU SHOULD NEVER PORTRAY ANY FORM OF NON!CON OR DUB!CON SEX AS BEING OKAY