Awful. Awful, awful, awful. I got probably halfway through this, wanting to give it a fair go for reviewing purposes, and just couldn't continue.Where do I start? Probably with the style of writing, which was the first thing that hit at me. Written from the point of view of teenager Zoey Redbird, the prose is so stereotypically teenage that I'm surprised this entire generation isn't throwing this book down in insulted disgust. Just because something was said by one teenager at one point in time, doesn't mean everyone should be subjected to it in every paragraph. And like many reviews before this one have said, the pop culture references (which are frequent) will definitely date this book, and make it hard for future generations to relate to it.Then there's the overuse of words such as 'said'. So-and-so said something, then other so-and-so said something, oh and a third so-and-so also said something next. Ever heard of a thesaurus? The point of using any words to close conversation is to describe how something is said, or how the person is reacting, etc etc. Said becomes obsolete very quickly.'Consuetudinary'??? Pretentious much? Just because someone is into vocabulary doesn't mean they use crazy random words that no normal person would bother using. Intelligent people, which I'm not suggesting are a group of individuals to which I belong, don't use large obscure words. They use the simplest words to convey meaning. So this guy simply must be 'into vocabulary', rather than being intelligent, thus showing his true nature. Couple this with the protagonist who likes to make up words ('ginormic') and you're reading a veritable smorgasboard of literary tripe. And what teenage girl says 'gorgeous young lad' in this century? Also, back to the issue of writing as a teenage girl, readers still want some sophistication in books. If I wanted to experience the exact vocabulary and mannerisms of a stereotypical teenager I'd stop trying to block them out on the train on the way to the city each week.By the way, when the protagonist makes an incredibly lame joke and either follows or precedes it with 'hee hee' you can bet good money that the actual response isawkward silence.Okay, so I'll take a step back and say something nice. I can see that the author was trying to present a new angle to the current vampire craze (or 'vampyre' as it's written in this book), and this has basically been accomplished. Although as far as vampire school books go, I would definitely recommend theVampire Academyseries byRichelle Mead, or theEvernightseries byClaudia Grayinstead. Trying to capitalise on a trend is one thing, but doing it poorly just shows how little the author cared about anything other than getting their own vampire books on the market quickly.