The main flaw of this book is that the expectations are usually higher than it actually deserves.''Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas'' is supposed to be a hilariously witty portrait of the underground culture of the 70s, when the Summer of Love experience was nothing but a sad memory, already fading away in the burst of violence of those final lysergic days: the Family's murders, the escalating Vietnam atrocities, the ethnic clash, the political tension etc. The American Dream had already turned into the parody of itself, an illusion in which nobody actually believed anymore; drugs and self oblivion had lost their recreational nature and become a daily routine (as well as a flourishing industry); the sense of spiritual communion of the Hipster culture was now barely distinguishable from criminal behaviour and alienation.The protagonists of this road trip are the author himself (a journalist) and his so-called attorney, going to Las Vegas to write an article on a car race. They fill the trunk of their car with a huge amount of alcohol and any conceivable drug they can put their hands on, drive through the desert and finally reach their hotel, both of them utterly fucked up by acid and pot and downers and so on.Looking for trouble and excess, the duo wonders in the streets of Las Vegas, bumps into tough policemen and harasses tourists at random. After the car race they are paradoxically assigned the task of writing a report on a drug convention, in which they pretend to be police officers and spread panic among their 'colleagues' about the increasingly widespread satanism in the Los Angeles area (the Tate - La Bianca murders in 1969 were indeed the beginning of a long-lasting psychosis, echoing in the media and cunningly exploited by Hollywood).Sounds interesting, huh? Well, could be - if only Thompson had done a bit more than touching upon all this in poorly written chapters centred on a few not-so-funny episodes. Satire needs detailed and clever descriptions of characters, places and events; and, most of all, excellent skills in writing dialogues. Something Thompson lacks entirely.I mean, as a devoted admirer of Wlliam Burroughs I am hardly disturbed by obscene language and disgusting scenes. They must have some literary value, though. A value I did not find here.What I do like in this particular edition are R. Steadman's illustrations, a style reminding of R. Crumb's "Fritz the Cat'' (probably the best comic character of the American underground scene). But this is not enough for me to give it more than two stars.By the time I read this book I was eighteen and I had already had my personal share of Fear &amp; Loathing, so I was more disappointed by the poor writing style than interested in whatsoever literary or cultural merit of Thompson's work.P.S. I'm a good girl now.