I can't believe she thought she could get away with it. The same damn book, especially once the boy and the girl get together. Ooh! Read it side-by-side with Twilight and get Meyer's bad dialogue in stereo! And with no change of voice whatsoever even though the narrator has changed. As I've said in my other reviews, Meyer cannot write. We do get a little more information on the Cullens, but any character development (Rosalie especially) that may have happened in the first four books is forgotten in Midnight Sun. More evidence of Meyer's sloppiness as a writer.But if you ever had any doubts about Edward and Bella being a perfect match, you can stop worrying. They're equally pathetic, whiny and shallow. Edward might have been interesting as a kickass vampire vigilante in his rebel days; I know some police departments who could use a guy like him and save the taxpayers a lot of money, but all we get is a prissy 108-year-old virgin who reads and listens to music while the rest of his family have wild, house-ruining nooky.Same sloppy prose, same shallow characters. I suffered through four books already. That's plenty. Not even for the pleasure of sporking this would I have bought or even borrowed it.My undying gratitude to whomever leaked the manuscript.Edit: January 5, 2011:Feminist rant; proceed at your own risk. I know I've mentioned Meyer's narrow worldview and anti-feminism in my reviews of the other four novels, but for the sake of consistency, I'm going to point it out anyway. There's a scene in the manuscript with the Cullens in the Forks High School cafeteria. Jasper is, as usual, marshalling all his willpower to not leap onto the next student he sees and drain them of their blood. Alice says something to the effect of, "it helps if you think of them as people" and proceeds to give a little backstory on a student, Whitney, who walks by their table. Whitney who "has a baby sister she adores." Later on, Jasper is having another such moment, again about a girl with tasty-smelling blood who, according to Alice, is taking her little brother to the beach on Saturday.Jasper seems to struggle with his hunger in the presence of any human, so why does Meyer have to point out only thegirlswho tempt him? And why were both of them portrayed only as nurturing mother figures to younger siblings? Again, as in the other four books, a woman is only validated by having a boyfriend or a husband and by being a mother; for example, Rosalie telling Bella she'd wish to be old and wrinkly with Emmett watching their grandchildren play in their front yard and her "rescue" of Bella once her pregnancy is discovered, Esme's near-suicide after the death of her child, Leah's rant about how she probably became a shapeshifter because she can't have kids. Oh yeah, and Bella risking her life to bring her vampire hybrid into the world whatever the cost.Any one of these, taken separately, might not be alarming to me, but its prevalence in the books shows how deep Meyer's religious indoctrination runs. From the earliest age, young girls and women in the Mormon faith are told that they must marry and procreate, that the only important work they could ever do will be as a wife and mother. How is the single woman, the woman with a satisfying and successful career, or the woman who cannot have children to cope as a member of a Mormon congregation, especially when there are judgmental members around whispering amongst themselves that somehow she isn't "worthy" or some man would have wanted her or "the Lord" would have blessed her with children?Instead of carrying this idea to the silly extreme to which Meyer carries it, why couldn't Whitney have been a member of the school swim team and taken second in state in the hundred-meter freestyle? Why couldn't the other girl (too lazy to look up her name, sorry) have had mad writing skills or play the violin? Alice's powers of clairvoyance could have been used so much better here. "She'll be first chair violinist in the Seattle Symphony in five years--that is, if you don't catch her behind the building after classes."Also. . .why couldn't either of them have been a guy? Oh yeah, because vampirism is a metaphor for sex, and you can add chronic homophobia to the list of Mormon dogma.There's much more Mormon meta in these books, but that would fill four books the length of Meyer's so-called "saga" itself.I don't think Meyer even realizes she's doing it, but again, here we see Meyer's narrow worldview, her lack of imagination, her sloppiness and laziness as a writer, her fear of creating characters that are anything other than Mary Sues.And again, my undying gratitude to whomever leaked the manuscript.P. S. I've received comments like "U R just jellus cuz Stephanie (sic) wrights better then U!!!!!!!!111or my favorite, "You don't like it cuz you don't get it."And recently, members of the LDS faith have been calling me out for pointing out Meyer's dismissal of any female character without a functioning uterus (Rosalie Hale, Leah Clearwater), portraying them as lesser individuals. Leah (a badass girl-wolf-shapeshifter) who whines about being "defective" because she stopped menstruating and that's probably why nobody "imprinted" on her, and Rosalie, who was "turned" as a young, single woman. I've been saying, from a position of personal experience, that the narrow worldview comes from Meyer's religious upbringing.I understand religious indoctrination and how "bred into the bone" it can be, and I'm saying Meyer cannot seem to get out of that mindset when she's writing. I find it shallow and trite and a negative message to the young women and girls who read the books, along with the other bullshit about turning your free will over to a controlling, abusive man-beast and portraying that as romantic because he's rich and pretty.I further understand that these books provoke strong emotions in people. If you are here out of curiosity and you gave it 5 stars, you can forget about a meeting of the minds on the quality and merit of this series. So try to be a grownup about other people's opinions differing from yours. Read and move on.