This book is a nightmare. It's as if Jamie McGuire reached into my brain, found my worst nightmare, wrote it down, and then charged me $13.99 to relive it.But that's not all. I read this book on an 8-hour flight from London to Toronto. This book and I spent 8 hours together, in coach seating, with nothing to do but surrender to the impossibility of an escape. There was nowhere to run and nowhere to hide, as this book stared up at me, begging to be read."Give me a chance," it said. "Just because my author ostentatiously attacked reviewers like a spoiled brat last year during the Great War of Goodreads doesn't mean I'm a heap of shit. Read me. Read me, bitch. Read me."I caved to the demands of the book, and am now a quivering wreck on the floor. I will proceed to chronicle my transition from literature enthusiast to broken shell of a woman below.Beautiful Disaster: A hallmark of passive aggressive literature that is secretly at home in the apocalyptic genreTake off: My spirits are high. The first page is fine, if a little poorly written. I make a note that this book kind of reads like fanfiction. Also making a strong effort not to blend the author's tasteless actions last year with the content of the book. Also laughing at the ridiculous character names, but reminding self that neither "America" or "Shepley" is as bad as "Eureka Boudreaux".Growing distaste for random "Pigeon" nickname.Hour one: Surprised by route taken by book. There appears not to be instalove, which reallyshouldn'tbe surprising, given the nature of the absolutely deplorable love interest who is a walking caricature of male privilege, misogyny and rape culture rolled into one physically unappealing package. Writing grinds on my nerves:excessiveand contextless swearing, as well as random British words and phrases, pepper the text.Parker/Abby/Travis love triangle is unrealistic, twisted, and does not hang together. All Abby does is fuck Parker over, and all Travis does is fuck Abby over, and all Parker does is belittle Abby and walk around looking perfect, and no trouble stirs from this despite Travis and Parker being frat brothers? Why the fuck is Travis even in the fraternity, because all he does is beat the shit out of everyone? (Then again, this sort of antisocial clique mentality and culture of gender binary is what fraternities and sororities thrive on). Constant and aggressive misogyny against every other woman who shows interest in Travis is a motif within Abby's narrative. They're bimbo twins, or they're short-skirted sluts, or they're "giving themselves up". Of course, Travis engaging in promiscuous behaviour is sympathized with because he's "troubled".Hour two: All sympathy for book waning. Abby and Travis revolve around each other like the doors at Macy's and whine about loving each other but not being sure about the other person's feelings, meanwhile the entire college watches them as if they are the centre of the universe and Abby shrugs off this fame while smoothing down her modest cardigan and flipping her modest hair like a "good girl"."A really popular misogynist/date rapist is in love with me," she says, in front of an adoring freshman audience. "But we're just friends. Whatever. I don't let it go to my head."Self-indulgent narrative sympathizes aggressively with dysfunctional central relationship and tries to convince reader that said dysfunctional central relationship is not abusive by addressing this threat of abuse through the lens of characters set up by the narrative to be villainous/bitchy/slutty. All women except those in committed relationships are portrayed as harpies. This 400-page book, narrated by a female character, written by a woman, just barely passes the Bechdel test.Hour three: Cabin fever sets in. The book and I stare each other down, with the seatbelt sign looming over our heads as a hellish omen sent to warn us of the impending five hours of the journey, in which we will remain locked in a turbulence-fuelled death grip at 40,000 feet. Determined not to succumb to the throes of insanity, I throw the book under the seat and watchOz, The Great and Powerful. Movie is just as misogynistic and cheesy as book.Book finds its way back into my hands. I open it and go hard at it, determined to finish it in the next three hours. However, I am forced to gag into my white paper vomit bag when a sex scene with all the romantic appeal of the "guts" sequence fromThe Walking Deadblindsides me. I read another hundred or so pages filled with nothing but belly button fluff, and then the proverbial towel is thrown in again.(Bonus points for Travis trashing the apartment like a fucking gorilla in heat after Abby leaves in the morning without saying goodbye.Bonusbonus points for havingAbbyapologize for his appalling, violent, frightening behaviour.)Hour four: Insanity sings a siren song. I am barely able to hold on to my mind as a huge convoluted plot involving Vegas, poker and "cronies" springs up out of thin air.Abby and Travis break up because Travis wants to join the Mob (???), and the sun seems to shine again.Hour five: Abby and Travis fuck each other over again, constantly pussy-footing around the truth and their feelings. However, hilarity ensues when one realizes that they have broken up and Travis is stuck with "Pigeon" tattooed on his wrist. What a fucking idiot.(Aside: book seems to spookily endorse tattooing other people's names and script related to other people's names on one's body.It is a very, very bad idea to tattoo another person's name on your body.This is pretty much a renowned fact. Tattoo artists everywhere will strongly advise against it.)Abby and Travis fuck again in his father's house (???) but they don't get back together.Hour six: The plane has entered Canada and the end of the longest flight in history appears to be in sight. However, the book refuses to wrap up. There is more misogyny to be had, more violent behaviour from Travis, more pussy-footing, and a reunion which oozes with cheese. Side characters America and Shepley continue to be aggressively boring.Hour seven: weird fire-at-the-fighting-ring subplot appears, and fizzles away to nothing. Motif of weird fizzling subplots emerges and it becomes apparent that there is no plot to this book, only an abusive and codependent relationship and its hurdles. Nothing actually happens except a few immature and bratty kids behaving like dogs in heat, spattering period blood all over the floor and pissing on strangers' pant legs. They are the most inconvenient, self-absorbed and antagonistic group of people who all need a good, solid kick in the pants.(Bonus points for pretending to be inclusive by having a gay character. Yes, pretending. Book is not inclusive when book portrays a gay character as an extreme and commodified caricature with absolutely no expression of sexuality, no agency, and no reason for existence outside of consoling the main character when her straight romance breaks down.)Hour eight: Travis and Abby are married (!!!) in Vegas (!!!) at nineteen years old (!!!) which I suppose is meant to be a happy ending but in fact leaves a very bad taste in my mouth. Cheesiest scene in the history of the universe proceeds, along with fifty pages of surrounding filler. Book seems to drag on forever - chronicling Abby and Travis as they check in at the airport, as they drive somewhere, as they hug, and as they recycle the same conversation filled with sweet nothings that they have exchanged at least twenty times before. I am crying inside, begging for this ordeal to be over.When it is, a tsunami of relief washes over me. I arrive home, go to bed, and do not awaken for eleven hours.In conclusion: this book is not beautiful. This book is just a disaster.FIN