...IREALLYwanted to like this book. The plot sounded so good, and it seemed perfect anyone who loves to read and who loves books themselves. A book restorer who can pull characters from the pages by reading aloud? I thought it was a sure thing. Needless to say, I was severely disappointed. I've liked Cornelia Funke's books in the past, particularlyThe Thief Lord, but as I readInkheart, I noticed over and over again how hollow the story felt, and how much opportunity the author had to make a really amazing book with her great beginning idea. The characters had no depth (despite their emotional reactions to books), and seemed to all be cliches: there's a crazy book-loving aunt, mafiosi, dumb henchmen, etc. I never really bought the sadness and despair that the characters felt from being ripped from their homes within the book, something that Funke really could have developed. Likewise, I never bought that the three book-lovers truly loved books. They didn't reference very many, and even seemed to convey an arrogance about their love of books that I found off-putting. The author also chose to head each chapter with a quote from a book that supposedly prefaced what was to come, but I found her selections poor, and most of the quotes (59 chapters, after all) came from only a handful of books. It felt like, similar to her characters, she only has read a few books. However, maybe I felt this way because the books that the heroine, Meggie, loves are all books I kind of really dislike. Speaking of Meggie, what about her was I supposed to like? She came off as very bratty and negative instead of brave and precocious, which I'm sure the author meant to portray. The mastermind of evil, Capricorn, only wanted to live in a dilapidated Italian village and hoard treasure read out of books while bullying the neighboring towns into silence about his existence. Why exactly was he so scary? What was his evil evil goal? Did he even use the gold to get stuff? Also, it didn't feel like the ability to read things out was consistent. At first, characters can read objects and people out of the book, but they have their own will and don't follow what happened to them within the book. However, the climax involves reading a monster from the book, and then directing its actions with the story written about it. Did I miss something? Was I just skimming at that point? This isn't how the earlier characters operated.And perhaps most disappointing is that nothing really happened with the plot. We find out early on what Mo (a TERRIBLE TERRIBLE choice to name the hero) is hiding from Meggie (the ability to read things out of books), they meet up with Capricorn quickly, they run away, they are recaptured, they plan their escape, the big climax fizzles out. Yet there are 500+ pages to fill. This book made me appreciate Harry Potter a billion times more (and I'm pretty apathetic about HP) because of the level of detail and side story that Rowling is able to incorporate. I believe strongly that good books should feel organic, like they came into being without the aid of a writer. This is a rather large theme within the book, and it was funny to me thatInkheartseemed to be the opposite of it.