2 stars. I really, really wanted to like this book more than I did. Unfortunately, I finished it with a sense of disappointment.My interest wavered throughout the novel, going on a roller coaster ride of ups and downs. Unfortunately, there were more downs than ups.The book started off with a bang! I was thrilled to have the feeling of settling into a well-written historical fiction/family drama/mystery, my absolute favourite genre combination. Sadly, this feeling was short-lived. After the first quarter of the book, the story got very 'strange', for lack of a better term. The strangeness wasn't to do with the talk of ghosts, it was the actual stories themselves. One of the main characters, Vida Winter, was telling her biographer her back story which was filled with several absurd childhood situations and peculiar stories, none of which sat well with me. During these scenes, I really lost interest and had to work hard to plug through and keep myself focused. Often I found it hard to talk myself into picking this book back up to continue reading. Several of the characters were extremely unlikable.What I liked about the book was the bookshop and library atmospheres. The author, Diane Setterfield, did a fabulous job of making me feel as though I were right in these rooms with the characters. I also enjoyed that this was essentially a book about books and book lovers.I will finish with some quotes that captivated me (all of these from the first 25 pages)."There is something about words. In expert hands, manipulated deftly, they take you prisoner. Wind themselves around your limbs like spider silk, and when you are so enthralled you cannot move, they pierce your skin, enter your blood, numb your thoughts. Inside you they work their magic.""Though my appetite for food grew frail, my hunger for books was constant.""The hours between eight in the evening and one or two in the morning have always been my magic hours. Against the blue candle-wick bedspread the white pages of my open book, illuminated by a circle of lamplight, were the gateway to another world."