This book was so disappointing. I'll try to approach this review on two levels here.First, the actual writing itself. Ugh - awful!! When I was getting my Elementary Education degree I had a choice of a literature class - post Civil War or pre Civil War. I picked post, but after reading this, maybe I should have picked pre- and I would have understood more of what Thoreau was saying! The sentences were SO LONG, with so many PARENTHETICALS, god, man, just get to the point! I know it was written in 1854, and that was part of the style, but even so, there were only a few moments of unique prose. Very few.Now - second level problem - the content. For the few sections that I DID understand - BLEAHHHH. What a POMPOUS ASS this guy was! So preachy! Sorry, Henry, but I'm not listening to a 37 year old, with NO WIFE, NO CHILDREN, tell me that I should be living a certain way. Nope, nope. In fact, side note, it has been said that Thoreau never was known to be with a woman or man. So much easier to just "do your own thing" when you are not responsible to anyone else!! I found myself constantly yelling at him. The only part of his book that I kind of liked was the nature. But seriously, he was only 2 miles from town! In fact, he walked back to have meals with friends! He was, what we call today, a classic MOOCHER! I kept imagining him as my neighbor there in Concord. Constantly standing at my fence, eating the apples off my tree, asking me if he could come over AGAIN for dinner and CRITICIZING me for owning two rakes, instead of one! Go away, Henry! Arrogant, rambling, boring. He was unfairly judgmental. I kept thinking, hey, I'm frugal, I'm not much of a consumer, I love being out in nature, in fact, I think I've actually been in REAL remote areas, not his little pretend remoteness - Henry, you'd love me! However, how dare you judge your neighbors for wanting to achieve "more" (whatever more is) with their hard-earned money.As far as people putting this book "up there" through the years, I almost wonder if they only read it in high school or college and someone said, yea, we think this is an important book, kid, so you should too? Or, perhaps, as some people really do enjoy the "self-help, how-to" genre, which is where this book fell for me - the 1850s Tony Robbins or Stephen Covey - bleah - they liked it? I read the 2004 edition and the best thing about it was the Introduction by environmentalist, Bill McKibben. Maybe McKibben set me up to not like this guy. McKibben mentions that Thoreau didn't really believe in "community" - a very strong and important component in making positive environmental changes in our country.Side note: I'm so happy I'm on the Goodreads site! If I had read this pre-Goodreads, I probably would have thought there was something wrong with me, as this book is so famous and Thoreau so well-known. However, after I read it I read some reviews that were SO articulate in reflecting these same problems that I had with the book! Other people also noticed that this guy was a bit of a con-artist, know-it-all. There are so many other, better authors who wrote wonderful reflections and memoirs on their experiences in nature. I'll seek out those treasures next time.