So, what can I say? I enjoyed the book, but in a guilty pleasures, sort of embarrassed to admit kind of way. Let's admit it - this is hardly well written, but it's quick and light and fun, and there's something to be said for that.That said, I didn't really like Sookie's voice. I found it rather irritating right from the start. And the dialogue - ugh, who talks like that? And if people really do talk like that, then I'm glad I don't know them.And there's not much character development to speak of. Sookie is annoying in her so-called naivette. It just seemed like manufactured drama to me. I mean, she accused Bill of being hot and cold, but, really, Sookie was just all over the place. She loves him, she hates him, she's not talking to him, she needs him - and over silly little trivial stuff. Talk about high maintenance.And Bill's pretty one-dimensional. "I'm violent, Sookie, but I'll never hurt you." And those clothes?Speaking of clothes - I didn't need to know about the print on Sookie's dress, or whether or not she washed her hair and shaved that day in the shower. Really, there are some details which are just extraneous. (Not to mention her fashion sense seems stuck in the 80s. If you're going to talk clothes, then talk clothes, dahling.)Anyway... the whole thing with Sam was pretty damn obvious, too.Erm, as far as characters go, I liked the grandma, and every one else (well, including her, really) seemed pretty much like a pastiche.Actually, I think the best way I can say it is that it was like reading a soap opera. Over-the-top melodrama, with thin characters, and horribly bad dialogue.I don't see myself continuing with the series.Oh, but I do have to say, the whole "PR thing" about it being a virus. Ok - I could buy that people would buy that there's a virus that makes people avoid the sun and be allergic to garlic, or whatever... but the virus also makes their hearts stop and live forever? Really? And the fact that Sookie is surprised to discover it's supernatural? Ugh!I'd probably rate it lower, because it was just horribly written and ludicrous, but I liked it, damnit... so take it for what it's worth.