Ever wonder who it was to live in a remote countryside during the Civil War? How it was to be a solder for the confederacy when your side seemed to be losing? This is one such scenario of what it was like. In this book you get to see the war from both sides: Inman, a young man from Cold Mountain, goes off to fight for probably glory but instead he is wounded and left to die on the battlefield. Only he doesn't die and is eventually picked up and taken to a field hospital then sent on to a regular hospital where he is pretty much left to get better on his own. When he does, he decides that the war is not all it was cracked up to be and he doesn't want to face such odds again.Meanwhile, Ada, whose father was a preacher from Chicago serving the Cold Mountain congregation. Is struggling to make sense of her world as her father dies and then she finds out that her inheritance is pretty much the farm where she and her father lived. A farm that wasn't run as a working enterprise. Pretty soon, the fields have gone wild and the animals are wandering at will and without training on how to make a go of it, Ada is lost.This is about their journey: his to get back to Cold Mountain and Ada, who he hasn't seen in four years, she to gain self-sufficiency and independence. For most of the book its a long slow haul.I wish I could say that I enjoyed this book. I was interested in Inman's journey but not enough to keep reading because I wanted to find out what was happening ... it was always dark. Ada's journey was growth as she learned what she needed to live and the value of a good friend but it was also almost always a struggle. Finally, in literally the last 25 pages, things happen and while there are some uplifting moments, even that was depressing.I'm not sure how to describe this. Its certainly not a mystery, not a history nor a romance. Did I learn something, was I surprised, did I cheer on the main characters? No. I disagree with the book's description that this "reveals marked insight into man's relationship to the land and the dangers of solitude" what ever that means. The same with Frazier "shares with the great nineteenth-century novelists a keen observation of a society undergoing change." I don't get the point.