Okay, don't hurt me, I know there are a lot of Christian Grey fans out there, unfortunately I am just not one of them.This is the third and final installment of the Fifty Shades trilogy, Ana and Christian are now married and are set to live a long and happy life, or are they? With some body out there threatening them and Christian's own fucked up past, wedded bliss maybe but a dream.Although I am not the biggest fan of the other books, I did find them strangely addicting and was quite looking forward toFifty Shades Freedbut I am very disappointed. I expected so much more. For me the book went like this:Ana:I am going out for some milk Christian! See you in 5!Christian:NO, STAY! MINE! Why are you abandoning me for milk, I KNEW I was unworthy of love. STAY!Ana:It is not that I am abandoning you for milk, we have just run out, you know I love you *gives soulful look*Christian:MINE STAY! It is dangerous..*looks away*...What would I do without you? *looks vulnerable*Ana:My poor Fifty! Oh Mr. Grey, you know I would never leave you...this is about your birth mother isn't it? She never got you milk.Christian:It is simply too dangerous you are MINE MINE MINE! Now Mrs Grey come here, I want to use sex to avoid talking about our problems Mrs Grey.Ana:Oh okay...you know I would never refuse you Mr Grey.The next morning...Ana:*looks down at her cereal* I knew I should have gotten some milk.Rinse and repeat~~~~~~~I found the whole thing repeatative, and Ana and Christian continued to irritate me more and more as I read the book, she would do something any normal girl would do; he would go psycho about it; she would cave; they have sex; he gets his way. It drove me nuts.I guess the two stars that I have given it are for the sex scenes themselves, they were hot, although I did start to get bored of them about half way through the book. It seems instead of givingFifty Shades Freeda plot, it has just been filled out with sex.I don't normally give such negative reviews and I try to say something positive, something that I liked, but I have found it hard for this book. But, I know alot of people, including my friends have loved it and would gleefully takes Ana's place if they could...just please, please cross me off that list!