Oh dear Lord I have just finished reading this and I can't stop laughing. At the end of the book there is an Author's Note that states that the author is fully aware that you cannot walk into an American Bank and demand to draw five million dollars. Oh my ever loving hell. THAT is the part that you're apologizing for?I want to cry scream and throw things! These books make me feel like the world is irreversibly messed up. And no - not because of the sex. Have all the kinky fun sex you want. But this man BROKE people. Am I the only person who is not ok with that? You want me to believe that this successful man is "broken" himself because his mother was a "Crack whore" (fuck you for constantly calling someone that just by the way - the constant reference to his mother as the crack whore pissed me off just as much as the shoddy workmanship and bullshit pretentious over-use of puffed up vocabulary did)but I will NEVER accept that being broken is an acceptable reason to use people like toilet paper - something our supposedly irresistible Mr. Grey even admits to.No. I'm sorry. All of this is fucked up. The writing is pathetic, superfluous and almost every second line in this series is redundant. Awesome - so a bunch of people read about kinky sex and now the riding crop and butt plug industry is booming. So happy you guys have all got your kink on. But please do NOT try and tell me that this is a "beautiful story". It just fucking isn't. The dynamic between these two people makes my teeth hurt. The idea that any woman would put up with being treated that way repulses me to no end. And Ana herself is just a bloody idiot. Take away the good looks and the money and you're left with a creepy fucked up guy who should be in jail. You tell me he is all these wonderful things though give me no reason to believe you. Ana is supposedly this intelligent bookish person - and she narrated THIS load of crap? You tell me she is strong? I'm sorry but I see no strength. All I see is a bunch of books where sometimes stuff almost happens but nothing ever really does. Oh yeah with a lot of sex in it. Whoopdie friggen doo. If you're into reading erotica then GREAT!! Go wild. Erotica is awesome and if nothing else it might help turn you on if your hubby can't get you excited any more. But spare me the "it's such a touching story and we care about Ana and Christian" crap.I have a newsflash for you: You're not in love with Christian Grey you just seriously need to get laid by someone who knows what they're doing.And let me tell you something else: no matter how good the sex is NO MAN is worth being treated badly. End of story.Also: for all of you planning to indulge in this kind of unrealistically frequent sex life - drink Citro Soda. On a daily basis. Twice daily even. I don't care how clean that man's penis is you still need to look after your vag!I have about a million other things to say but I'm actually too exhausted to even start going there...