Relief.Profoundrelief that I've finally finished this book.441 pages.Dear God it was about 200 pages too long. I swear, I thought it wasnevergoing to end. On and on and on and on...I just can't describe it.And then,justwhen I thought it was over...along comes anEpilogue.Ana and Christian frolicking in ameadowwith their son, while she pregnant with their daughter.But it's not ashortepilogue. Oh no. It comes complete with aFlashback.Oh no! Poor Ana had a scary labor and delivery!But it doesn't end there.'Cause where's the fun in that?No, you get re-read the first chapter ofFifty Shades of Grey...from Christian's point of view.God! Ihatehim! I know everyone else luuuurves this guy, but....*shrieking and banging head against wall*HE! IS! CRAZY!Doesnobodyelse notice this?! Igetthat he's had an awful childhood (for the first 4 years of his life), but he is beyond wacky!And Ana's reactions to his idiocy pissed me off even worse.He doesn't want her to drive ajet ski, because it's too dangerous.?!?!?!Are you serious? A fuckingjet ski?! 10 year old kids drive jet skis!Oh, butdefiantAna does it anyway.You go, girl! Get your ass on that big scaryjet ski!Of course the entire time she's worried that she's made himmad. Grrrrrrrr.Then, to add insult to injury, he agrees tolet her driveafter her initial unapproved ride. And she wrecks. Well, as much as you canwreckon a jet ski. She basically falls off...in thewater. And yet, you would think she hit a wall at 90 miles an hour, for all of the blubbering and scowling Christian does.HE! IS! CRAZY!So, in other words, Christian wasright. Poor little Ana shouldn't have driven theincredibly dangerousjet ski.Arghhhhh!And, naturally, Ana simpers and rushes to comfort the crazy bastard.It was like that for the entire book!Ana, you deliberately disobeyed me, by leaving the house to have drinks with your friend.*simper, simper*Oh, my poor, poor, Fifty! He looks so angry...maybe this time I've pushed him too far! He looks so lost and childlike. I guess that now would be a terrible time to tell him that I want to keep my maiden name at work! He's just so scared! I shouldn't do things to upset him. My poor, dear, lost, Fifty!In case you were wondering, shedoesn'tkeep her maiden name at her job. Nope. Poor Fifty couldn't take thestress.Everyone must know that you are mine, Ana!BECAUSE! YOU! ARE! CRAZY!If the damn animal bites you,stoppetting it, Ana!I kept thinking I would reserve judgment of her reactions, because maybe the author was going to have her go into therapy at the end of the book.But she didn't. No, apparently coddling a possessive stalker is the right way to deal with things.Yep. It's one big Happily Ever After for those two!I especially enjoyed the visual of him flogging her while she was pregnant, and commenting on how much he would miss the taste of breast milk.Ewwwwwwwwwwww!Fifty Shades of Annoying...the short list1) The 'high speed' car chase.85mph isnothigh speed unless you are over85!2)Calling each other Mr and Mrs. Grey. It was cute on your wedding day. After 400 plus pages...not so cute.3)Come. It's Christian's favorite word, and he must have said it 500 times. If you haven't read the book, then you probably can't understand how much one word could grate on your nerves.Come. Ana, we must go.Come. You must eat.Come. You must be tired.Come. Follow my creepy ass to the bedroom.Come. You cannot think for yourself.Come. I will smirk and grin if you go with me.KA-BOOSH!*my head explodes*4)The grody Mrs Robinson?Nothing happens to her.At the very least Grace should have taken a hit on on her. Sorry, but if I found out a family friend had screwed one of my teenagers...Run, Bitch! Run!I was perversely delighted to find out that her ex-husband had broken a few of her bones when he found out about heaffairwith Christian. In fact, myinner goddessdid a somersault...in her granny panties,thank you very much.5)The book is filled with dumb-ass stuff like this:"What do you want, Mrs Grey?"Blah, blah, blah...I can feel him hard against my behind."You.""And I you, my love, my life...,"*retching noise in background*Who says pretentious shit like that?! I can't imagine any guy (who still has his nuts) spouting that crap.This book sucked. I hated it.The End