As I read through the book, I will be listing things that I will gladly never have to read again.1. Laters, baby2. Christian using Ana's ponytail to pull her head back3. Mr. Grey/Ms. Steele/Mrs. Grey4. Ana's inner goddess5. Mine, mine, mine6. Christian's ridiculous overpossessiveness7. my Fifty8. how every woman who meets Christian practically swoons with longing9. how Christian is the best smell on Earth10. Christian constantly treating Ana like a child11. Ana biting her damn lip12. Christian using sex as a weapon13. Another first14. Fair point well made15. twitching palm16. mercurial17. Christian grabbing Ana's chin to hold her head still18. Christian's floppy, just f*cked hair19. Eat!20. rolling eyes21. Holy sh*t and all the other oh so expressive expletives that Ana the literary major uses22. Ana'a plum dress. Dear God, doesn't she own another piece of clothing?"Oh Christian...my possessive, jealous, control freak Christian" &lt;---Ana, those are not endearing qualities and if you had even an iota of experience you would know that. What idiot marries the first person they have a relationship with when said relationship is only a couple weeks old?Ana always expects to get punished if she "misbehaves". Ana, being in fear of your husband hurting you is not a good thing.I was beyond infuriated when he burst into her office at work and referred to her as "an asset" and mentioned that surprise visits help "keep wives in their place". He is such a conniving, manipulative jack*** and she falls for it every time.I wanted to shake Ana. I can't believe she thinks she got that job on her own merit. Please, you had no experience and had only been working at the company for a few days. Delusional much?"I've had enough of his cavalier, petulant, and, frankly, childish behavior." Oh please! He'll grin at you and flash his smouldering eyes and then wrap his hand in your ponytail, yank your head back and thrust his tongue into your mouth and all will be forgiven because you're a doormat.Generally, these two have no respect for each other. The keeping secrets, the doing things you know will p*ss your spouse off, etc. Neither one of them has a great deal of trust for the either which is ironic considering that she lets him tie her up.Okay, seriously, how difficult is it to remember birth control? Your husband is basically a child and you let yourself get knocked up? Christian is right, you are stupid. And it's all you you Ana, it's not Hannah's fault that you don't look at your calendar.And I fail to believe that someone with the net worth of Christian Grey keeps his wine in the fridge!