This was totally a five-star book. The artistic style and design, the incorporation of different viewpoints, the writing of internal dialogue- they were wonderful. The fantastic fusion of art and prose is obviously indicative of how well Moore and Lloyd worked together, and rarely do we come across a figure like V who remains just as indecipherable in the end as he was in the beginning, constantly providing the reader with food for thought. The Shadow Gallery was a brilliant creation as well, up to par with Sherlock's study and Dumbledore's chambers.Actually, it's more of a four-star book. It wasn't earth-shattering or life-changing, but the craftsmanship is here all the same. I have to give it credit for seamlessly combining elements that at first seem disparate: nuclear war, Guy Fawkes, concentration camps, fascism, vigilantism. There are touches here that are delightfully literary, like Valerie's beautiful letter or V's noirish cabaret song (complete with sheet music, which was a lot of fun for me to play on my keyboard), which effortlessly bring the lofty concepts back down to the reader's level, making it more than just a manifesto.Now that I think of it, it's a three-star book. For all its theatricality and flare, for all its uniqueness and clever tactics, one can't escape the feeling thatV for Vendettastill treads on familiar ground in terms of predictable relationships between characters, and between characters and the government. The way Moore peers deeper into a fascist regime to examine the human cogs and their motivations is fascinating, yes, but the whole message gets lost a bit somewhere between V's incessant diatribes and the bizarrely tangential and wildly confusing interludes in the middle.I guess it's a two-star book. After all, the story is greatly lacking in coherence, jumping from viewpoint to viewpoint with abandon and throwing together all manner of ridiculous and unnecessary subplots. It's hard to relate to any of the characters, as they consistently make absurd decisions and act erratically. Not to mention that I still didn't know 90% of the characters' names because of how much they blended together, and some of the dialect writing, Scottish specifically, was beyond impossible to read. Also, in the end, the theme is flimsy, leaving many intricacies unanswered.You know what? This is a one-star book. The two main characters are cardboard cutouts, and the whole thing is completely impenetrable in terms of the denseness and contradiction of the political ideology therein. With a plot that goes from intriguing to confusing to off-the-rails, culminating in a climax that comes simultaneously too early and far too late, any charm that the artwork and innovation conjures up is decimated by sloppy pacing that manages to both rush and lag. Beyond that, V's monologues and modes of speech became grating, and Evey's transformation, like so much else, wasn't believable....do you see my problem here?