1.5/5 starsDNF at page 195Apologies in advance to anyone who liked this book. This is simply my opinion.Looks like it's time for another unnecessarily long gif-filledrantreview, folks.My friends, after this book:Me, after this book:Never have I ever been happier to check a book out from the library.Did I even read the same book as everyone else? I was expecting a swoon-worthy misfit love story. Did I get that? Nope. I got whiny characters and angst.A lot of angst.Seriously, a more appropriate title for this book would be "Angst &amp; Daddy Issues."I love Rainbow Rowell, I really do. Carry On and Fangirl are two of my favourite stand-alones - they made me laugh, flail, even tear up a little. Eleanor &amp; Park just made me annoyed and confused.I didn't care about these characters - at all. And believe me, I care deeply about the well-being of fictional characters. But these characters....I didn't care about Eleanor, or Park, or their family, or the plot, or, more accurately, the lack of plot. All I could think was:Which is probably what everyone is going to think about my unpopular opinion, sorry.There was one scene that made me think I was falling for these characters, but after that, everything I thought was, "How many pages do I have left?" or "When are things going to start getting good?" That should've tipped me off right then and there that I was not going to enjoy this.You see, I typically give a book 100 pages before I decide if I like it or not. I gave Eleanor &amp; Park roughly 200 pages before I decided I couldn't take much more of this.Dear, Eleanor:Eleanor annoyed me so much.So much.I hate characters who are indecisive and constantly contradict themselves in any way, shape, or form - and that was Eleanor in a nutshell. Look. I get it. She's had a rough life. The kids at school write horrible things on her notebooks. Her step-father is a dick. But that shouldn't be an excuse to constantly take your anger out on your boyfriend, who did nothing to you. You know that song by Katy Perry? The one where she says "you change your mind like a girl changes clothes?" Yeah, that song is basically Eleanor'santhem.To me, this book seemed a bit insta-lovey. Sure, they hated each other at first, but their relationship was soaggravatingand rushed.Weirdly enough, one reason I didn't like the book was because it took place in the 80's. How stupid is that? It's a ridiculous reason to dislike a book. But it still bugged me, nonetheless.Will I ever come back to this book? Maybe. But as of right now: