This book is just not for me. I should not have borrowed this. I should have ignored this book even if this is this month's read for our book club. I have no intention of attracting attention by disliking this popular book. I am just being honest to myself.Please allow me to explain.(1) Late last year, I read and liked Suzanne Collin'sThe Hunger Games.I don't read lots of dystopian and I thought I read it even before I read William Golding'sLord of the Flies. So, the idea of kids or young adults killing each other like how they do it in a TV reality show shocked me literally and it made me finish all the three books in that series. This despite my older brother making fun of me reading a YA book while our two families are enjoying our annual Christmas break in a resort. I did not care. The book was engaging and I had to continue reading.Sadly,Divergent, by yet another female American writerVeronica Roth, uses the very same formula. There is nothing wrong with this tactic. Strike while the iron is hot. It is just not for me. The similarities are glaringly obvious: survival of the fittest, a virginal vulnerable girl in the brink of adulthood, first love, first kiss, defying convention, same love for the family, against all odds, despite all obstacles, triumph in the end, etc. DON'T KID YOURSELF into saying that this is different. These writers will continue to write this kind of novels as long as there are readers patronizing them. Let's all do ourselves a favor by moving on. Let's read books with new and not recycled plots. I know Veronica Roth, a graduate of creative writing, has many many other nicer plots in mind and let's encourage her to write a different novel so she has a better use for her creative juices.(2) This book is for young girls. Maybe even for the girls who still dream of their young selves. It is a romance novel hiding under the cloak of dystopian genre. Traditionally, dystopian used to be a genre identified with male readers and crossing the line gives female readers the opportunity to show their tough side because they also read and appreciate dystopian books. However, read their reviews here at GR. They are all in love withFourorAljust like how they debated aboutPeetaor the other boy in THG. I would imagine that when Four was kissing Tris for the first time, those female readers who have never been kissed were imagining themselves as Tris. I should know. I am a father of a 16-y/o girl and we are closed the she tells me what she wants in a boy and who her crushes are. So, if you are a girl, DON'T KID YOURSELF that you enjoyed the killing here just like how the young male readers would have enjoyed it.(3) The plot lacks believability. The overall scheme of the society is not explained. For example, who put the Abnegations in the government? Isn't it that brains (of the Erudites) are also needed not only in running the government but also in all other things? Where do the factions get their income to run their affairs? Don't tell me that Amities just make friends all day long and they earn money to put food on the table just by being friendly. Again, going back to THG, at least Suzanne Collins, in the first book, made her milleu believable. But not Veronica Roth. She just thought that these questions are not important so she just labelled and grouped all people into five factions. Oh, how convenient. Then the readers just take everything in stride and saythis is awesome!,this is the best book i've ever read. ever.And to think that the ones who commented these are male! Maybe they need to expose themselves into more believable novels say by George Orwell, Margaret Atwood, Aldous Huxley, Kurt Vonnegut, etc. All those dystopian or sci-fi masters. They'll see semblance of this book's basic plot in those earlier and definitely more brilliant works. They'll realize that they should not be saying that this is the best ever book as this is just a painful rehash of what those gurus have already written. DON'T KID YOURSELF that this is all-original.Sorry, Maria. I perfectly understand why you love this book. It is just not for me. You cannot hate me anyway since we work in the same company and I know that my disliking this book is not enough for you to consider me your enemy. Oh, I agree that you and Four can make a wonderful couple ha ha! Thanks for lending me this book. :)