"I thought as much, sir, when you mentioned rabbits. The thing about rabbits, sir, is that everybody has one. I'd like to see you step up to the goat-class where I feel you belong. Frankly you look more like a goat man to me."(p133)This is a book set in the far distant future of 2020. Colonies have been established on distant plants, regular space traffic is a matter of fact, as are robots that look identical to humans - even when violently blown apart, at the same time the idea that women might be anything other than receptionists, housewives or secretaries is unimaginable in this story. It was written in the 60s, just curiously in the 1960s rather than the 1760s. Perhaps as often in science-fiction, the writing is about the present and the rejection of what the author doesn't like about contemporary society. Which is why no doubt everybody has a hovercar, for surely there can have been nothing worse than the traffic jam in 60s west coast America.no one today remembered why the war had come about or who, if any one, had won(p11)Uh. Years ago I read a newspaper article, probably inThe Independent, which for unrelated reasons has since shut down, about Philip K. Dick andStanislaw Lem. Dick was an admirer of Lem, until paranoia got to much for him imagining elaborate conspiracies possibly a by-product of his experimentation with chemical substances not endorsed by all professional or legal authorities. Anyway, originally, it was written, Dick wanted to write a great realist novel about American Working Class Life with capital letters. Science-fiction was just a way to fund that other never-written novel. Bits of that desire flash up in these stories, particularly here maybe in the desire for unaffordable status-symbols whichThorstein Veblenwould have appreciated for their impracticality, the literal desolation of suburban life, and the the alienation beloved of all nineteenth century social thinkers."Why?" Rick said. "Why should I do it? I'll quit my job and emigrate."The old man said, "You will be required to do wrong no matter where you go. It is the basic condition of life, to be required to violate your own identity. At the same time, every creature that lives must do so. It is the ultimate shadow, the defeat of creation, this is the curse at work, the curse that feeds on all life. Everywhere in the universe."(p141)Alternatively these books come out of his pharmacological habits.For me in all the Philip K. Dick stories that I have read so far have featured reality being cracked apart. The principal character has lived inside an egg, and as the tale is told a massive spoon descends and cracks it violently open. You think you are alive - well you're actually your brain is on life support and technically you're dead, or your entire existence is false and the real world is in fact described in a political fable written by a man living high among the Rocky Mountains. In one of the film versions of this book the same thing happens(view spoiler)[you know, although I have forgotten vast swathes of the film, I feel that it is a better story than the book. The joy of Philip K. Dick books is the wild flora and fauna of his ideas, the problem with Philip K. Dick books is the wild flora and fauna of his ideas, which the film shows can benefit from vigorous gardening(hide spoiler)], Dick doesn't embrace the potential for that here, although the possibility is present and would, I felt, have been a logical conclusion. At first reading it seemed impossible to imagine that the main character - Deckard - was human given the flatness of his tone, but then I remembered that I was reading a Philip K. Dick novel - there vividness is reserved for descriptions of clothing.UbikandThe Man in the High Castleboth worked better for me because the illogic of the story ran with the grain of the narrative, here it cuts against it.(view spoiler)[How does Rachael Rosen know where Deckard lives? There is an entire Police station operating independently from the rest of the city police that has been infiltrated by robots - nobody notices and the discovery makes no impact on the rest of the stories characters despite the central narrative conceit that Deckard's boss is organising the hunting down of robots. Why do they bother hunting them down when they only have short lifespans? Having come to that why are they making robots indistinguishable from humans when they clearly don't like them and they only need them to do basic labour on the colony planets - isn't this a fundamentally crazy society since it isn't producing conscious combine harvesters instead? If the Robots are dangerous killers oughtn't bounty hunters have very short working lives since they have to administer these intricate obvious tests during which time they'd be vulnerable to assault?... You don't want to read this too sober, ideally the more adrift you are from the conscious mind the better it might work(hide spoiler)]. The reality of this book is tangibly different from our own. The faked prophet denounced by the robot TV presenter manifests himself twice with concrete effect, the cut sustained in imagination is physically visible stigmata like. There is no clear boundary between the fantasy world of the mind and the physical world of the body, matched perhaps by the interweaving of artificial sheep and spiders with people who care for them and experience deep empathy for their programmed experience.