The only reason I read this book is because I thought it was an autobiography. When I finished reading it, I did some research and found out that it was not a real diary. Now that I know it isn't a true story, I don't really have anything good to say about it.It really bothered me that the author said it was a real teenagers diary, when really it was just a work of fiction. The author was clearly trying to scare people with this book. When I was reading the book, the only redeeming quality was the fact that I thought it was a real story. While I read it though I did question the authenticity of the "diary". First of all it just seemed unlikely that a drug addict would constantly write in a diary and keep it with her all the time. Secondly, it didn't sound like it was a 15 year old's diary. Even when she wasn't on drugs, it just didn't sound right to me. Halfway through I wanted to stop reading because I was so bored and I was skimming but I kept going so I could find out what happened and also so I could give it a negative review.The message I got from the author was - "don't do drugs ever. Don't even do them once because then you'll get wrapped up in that world and you'll get raped and abused and beaten and once you decide to get clean, drug users will track you down, bully you, beat you, rape you, drug you and you'll land in a hospital with horrific injuries and then land in a mental hospital. You will be marked for the rest of your life and then you will die because of drugs. Don't do drugs ever. And don't have sex before marriage."I do think drugs can ruin lives. It was only here a few weeks ago that a young girl died from taking ecstasy. But this book didn't do anything productive. If it scared people out of doing drugs, I suppose that's a plus but for me, it was not a good book and it didn't have a positive clear message. The one good thing (I suppose) about this book was that it told teens that it is okay to speak to someone if you're in trouble.Don't read this. It's not good.