not read yet, just picked up from the library ...---------------------------------The description for this edition, and credits, here on Goodreads are as follows:Beowulfby Unknown (Editor), E. Talbot Donaldson (Translator), Joseph F. TusoThis Norton Critical Edition presents the highly acclaimed Donaldson prose translation of Beowulf in its entirety. This accurate translation together with its useful annotation fully conveys the meaning and spirit of the Anglo-Saxon original.The credits are mixed up, Unknown is the author, Donaldson is the translator, and Tuso is the editor. The description is taken from the back cover of the book, it includes only the first paragraph of what is written there. The rest of it is pretty informative, here it is, in its entirety:BeowulfA Norton Critical EditionThis Norton Critical Edition presents the highly acclaimed Donaldson prose translation of Beowulf in its entirety. This accurate translation together with its useful annotation fully conveys the meaning and spirit of the Anglo-Saxon original.The Backgrounds and Sources section provides students with the historical, linguistic, and literary setting ofBeowulf. Among the readings are E. Talbot Donaldson's presentation of the major features of Old English poetry, C. L. Wrenn's discussion of the historicity of Beowulf, and a valuable archaeological survey of the period by Ralph Arnold.The critical essays, many of them reprinted here for the first time, include a lively discussion of the Christian elements inBeowulf. The critics are E. Talbot Donaldson, Fr. Klaeber, J. R. R. Tolkien, Kenneth Sisam, R. E. Kaske, Margaret E. Goldsmith, Alvin A. Lee, John Leyerle, F. G. Cassidy, R. N. Ringler, Paull F. Baum, E. V. K. Dobbie, Edward B. Irving, Jr., and Frederick Rebsamen.The Bibliography contains many references to Old English poetry. The Appendices include a reproduction of the First Folio of the CottonBeowulfplus a useful Index of Proper Names.THE EDITORJoseph F. Tuso is professor of English at the University of Science and Arts of Oklahoma. He received his Ph. D. from the University of Arizona, and has published articles in numerous scholarly journals, among them a study of Old English dialectal vocabulary which appeared inLinguistics. He has also written a critical study ofBeowulf.Cover design suggested by Joseph F. Tuso after the Sutton Hoo harp.------------------------I wish this was on kindle, the 2-page preface gives a really concise, and interesting, overview of the supplemental materials included with this edition. I'd highlight and share/copy the whole two pages, were this a kindle edition! :)