I'm a little annoyed...Tonight I read a book entitled "A Chiled Called 'It'" and I believe it's fiction, to say the least."A Child Called 'It'" is a story about a boy who survives horrendous over-the-top abuse at the hands of his mother. It basically reads as a long list of horrors that the author describes in grisly detail and sometimes depicts with startling clarity...My problems with the book are many, For the sake of brevity however, I'll just list a few:--He couldn't remember the color of his mothers eyes or hair, yet he remembered even the dates of certain abuses, the number of hits, the words said, and every fleeting thought. He remembers each abuse in vivid detail, clarity and full color descriptions.--He remembers too many specifics; One *tiny* example taken from the end of chapter two:"... The green river was as smooth as glass. The bluejays scolded the other birds, and a warm breeze blew through my hair. Without a word, we stood watching the firebhall-like sun as it sank behind the tall trees, leaving bright blue and orange streaks in the sky. From above, I felt someone hug my shoulders...."(Keep in mind that he was like 8 or 9 in that 'memory.' There are lots of these scenes throughout the book. Yes I remember certain things in my childhood quite vividly, but not *so* well that I could tell you when a warm breeze ruffled my hair.--After the first chapter (which is really the end of this story), the second chapter is devoted to describing the absolute perfect family in which he lived; perfect experiences and happiness in every way. There isn't even a hint of trouble like "mother had a drink with breakfast every day for the whole vacation" -- nothing like that.. Yet the first paragraph of chapter 3 reads"My relationship with Mom drastically changed from discipline to punishment that grew out of control. It became so bad at times, I had no strength to crawl away -- even if it meant saving my life."That's a hell of a jump there. Out of nowhere she starts drinking heavily and the abuse starts.--He recalls MANY times being shoved into a locked bathroom with a bucket containing Ammonia and Bleach. (This he called the gas-chamber game.) Each time it would happen, he'd be locked in there for a goodly amount of time.... And yet he suffered no permanent lung damage? He joined the service, and I'm amazed his lungs worked well enough to get him through basic training.--He describes his stabbing, and how his blood "completely soaked through" a number of shirts. And how he himself squeezed the pus out of it to rid of the infection that had set in. Pretty good for a (10?) year old.I don't know.. I just got a real funny feeling about the whole thing, and I've learned to trust my instincts, SO I turn to the internet, and for the past few hours have been searching and reading and searching and reading... I even watched a couple of interviews with Dave Pelzer (author / victim), and the man gives me the absolute impression of a charlatan. He speaks of his childhood abuses too flippantly, and seems more obsessed about book and ticket sales than he does about getting his story out.There is no doubt that child abuse happens. But just because it CAN happen, doesn't mean it happened to HIM. And even if he was abused as a child, I honestly believe he embellished his stories to the point of absurdity, and that is what makes me angry. Making up stories, or even embelishing on stories of abuse, cheapens what is *actually* happening to kids around the world.That is my opinion of this book: It's a fake. Just do the research, read the articles and watch the videos. Make up your own mind, but I'll bet you find his story is at least somewhat suspicious.