*1.2Recommended by a friend in orchestra, this book is supposed to be "really really good".I finished it in 3 hours because it was short and to the point. Yet I must say this book is extremely poorly written. It is structured in a sense similar to a pointless shopping list:so first my mother did this to me, then she did this, I was starving, afterwards she did this and I felt so terrible.Pelzer basically just described, no scratch that, hestatedthe unfortunate things that have happened to him in sequence. There are no character traits or branches of the story. Everything revolves around his mother and punishments; the book touches on nothing else. There are also no literary devices. Normally I don't really care about that, but the lack of writing skills has, honestly, made this book quite bland.A little synopsis of the book: Dave Pelzer was born the third of five children. His mother, one day, suddenly changed into a completely different person: from a kind and lovely mother, she transformed into one who starved and tortured Dave.What bothers me the most is the improbability of Dave's statements. These punishments Dave had gotten since four years old or so are so radical and crude that I am skeptical of what have really happened. Of course, I have no rights to judge. Pelzer's account is just way too farfetched. These things *did* happen to him, just not to this extent.These are reasons for my claims:1. The mother treats all of her children but Dave compassionately and motherly, yet Dave is singled out. The book has never explained why the mother suddenly turned crazy and why Dave was the hapless scapegoat. Update: That is a likely situation, so I no longer doubt it.2. The father and brothers at first sympathized with Dave. Towards the middle, they just all pretended Dave was their slave, as their mother has said.3. The unusualness of Dave's punishments. His mother had starved him for more than ten days, made him eat soap, forced him to inhale a mixture of ammonia and bleach, attempted to burn his arm over a gas stove (or to be precise, asked him to lie down on it), smashed his head into his baby brother's diaper (with feces on it), stabbed him in the stomach with a knife, strangled him, submerged his head under water, etc. And by the frequency of these punishments inflicted on Dave, it is almost impossible that Dave is still alive today, living well in good mental and physical health.4. The response from Dave's family after the book was published.