Not long ago, someone I know got into a really bad relationship. It was the kind of relationship where the guy was a pretty-faced douchebag who would tell her he loved her one minute and the next he would be making snide remarks about her weight and about her career, or standing her up when they were supposed to be going somewhere. But the worst part of this relationship wasn't him, it was my friend.Everyone she knew, including me, warned her away from him, told her he was bad and that she deserved better... you know, the usual. And she knew exactly who he was, knew that he was playing constant mind games.But she honestly believed that what she put up with was a worthy sacrifice for love. And she honestly believed she could change him. She would say "he's just an immature guy" as we sat with her while she cried because he'd made her feel like shit again. We subtly tried to remind her that there was such a thing as self respect and she was rapidly losing grip on it.I sat there and wondered how someone so pretty, smart and full of fiery personality could truly believe this was something normal that she had to accept and get through. But it's when I read books likeObsidianthat I receive a painful reminder that this kind of psychology is not only way too frequent, but also constantly reinforced by books selling such relationships as romantic and passionate. Do I need to point out the obvious example?Some people said this book was anotherTwilight- complete with sappy heroine, paranormal love interest and a shit ton of angst. Honestly, they insultedTwilightwith that one.Give me that creepy creeper called Edward Cullen any day over this rude, arrogant piece of work. I'm pretty sure Edward was actually kinda nice to Bella in his weird archaic "I won't shag you before marriage but I will sneak into your room and watch you sleep because that is totally acceptable and normal" way.Daemon, on the other hand, is an arrogant and downright RUDE dickwad. I'm not even going to pretend to understand the attraction because I don't see it. 'kay, he's beautiful, whatever. He also talks to the MC like she's crap he just stepped in, whilst interspersing the abuse with heated kisses and whatnot. There is nothing,NOTHINGattractive to me about making out with a guy who insults me and acts like I'm worth less than nothing. I don't get it.The heroine - Katy - isn't terrible. She has high points where she pulls out some well-placed snark AND she's a book blogger - woohoo! But she has plenty of eye roll-worthy Mary Sue moments where she frets about her obvious beauty. In the first chapter (I think) she describes herself in a way that is supposed to imply she is somehow plain - with "curvy hips, puffy lips and huge eyes". So... she has big eyes, full lips and curves. Yeah, we really feel your pain, Katy.I realise I just basically trashed a book that tops a lot of people's favourite lists - sorry. I am currently working my way through some popular YA that I always meant to read but never did, so that's how I crossed paths with this book after avoiding it for so long. But yeah, guess you figured out this one wasn't for me :)Blog|Facebook|Twitter|Instagram|Tumblr|Youtube