I want to believe.I really do. Just following the news these days is enough to make one lose faith in humanity. I really want to believe that there is something out there, god, gods, whatever. Aliens. ANYTHING. I want to feel like there are other creatures out there in this vast universe of ours, with greater knowledge, greater intelligence, and maybe one day they'll grace us with their presence and bestow on us their superior intellect.I certainly hope those future aliens are more intelligent than the dumb-as-dirt creatures inObsidian.Seriously, how stupid can you get? I've never been on the run, I've never had to hide, but if there's some things I've gleaned, it's how NOT to stick out like a sore freaking thumb.First, you find a HUGE goddamn city, like San Francisco, where nobody will even blink if you step out into the street in rainbow-colored pantyhose and an accompanying beard. You do not find a backwoods town where it's likely you're considered outsiders if your grandparents were born the next town over.Secondly, you BLEND IN. 2 pairs of triplets move into town within days of each other? That is not blending in. Supernatural beauty? Not blending in. Names like Daemon? NO. NOT BLENDING IN.Thirdly, you FIT IN. You make friends, you're friendly to people. You do not act like everyone is your enemy and warn off the friendly girl next door just because she wants to know where the closest store is.I just don't understand how this book got so many positive reviews. I get that this is fantasy/sci-fi YA fiction, but there's gotta be a limit to willing suspension of disbelief. For me, there's very little to like about this book. The heroine is all right, but I kind of rolled my eyes at the "I'm a BOOK BLOGGER. I'M SO HIPSTER. I'M A ZOOEY DESCHANEL GEEK GIRL" bit. That's how she seemed to me. She's a fair bit more intelligent than some of the YA fiction heroines I've read, but considering there exists Luce/Bella/etc...that's not saying much. The spaghetti scene was kick-ass, though.I found Daemon to be an enormous asshat for most of the novel. He's hot, sure, but that's it. He's such an unbelievable jerk, and I found Dee to be like the patient wife of an abusive husband, sniveling and simpering and constantly making excuses for her brother's rude, boorish, borderline abusive behavior.And Ms. Armentrout, enough with the 100000x random alien references/foreshadowing in the book already. It's called subtlety.