Well, looks like I'm a black sheep for this one guys.I did not go into this book expecting wonderful prose or a particularly moving story. I went into this book expecting pure fun, guilty-pleasure like entertainment and a hot alien.All I got was a hot alien.(Maybe I could put that on a t-shirt, "I read this book and all I got was this hot alien tshirt" and then just slap a picture of Daemon Black's face/abs on the back)Obsidian was a novel I avoided for a very long time as it sounded like something I would despise. I finally bit the bullet and read it and while I didn't hate it, I certainly didn't enjoy it.I'm not going to sit here and draw all the parallels to Twilight because I'm pretty sure every man and their dog has come to that conclusion. The parallels to Twilight isn't even my main problem with this book, in fact I found it to be better written and marginally more entertaining than Twilight. My main problem with this book is that it wasboring. I found myself putting this down and not really having the desire to pick it back up because I just didn't care. The plot was so damn predictable and I didn't feel any sense of urgency or excitement in it at all. I went into this thinking this would at least be entertaining and fun to read even if it wasn't a work of art, but I didn't even feel a little entertained by the story for the most part. Sure, there are parts where it's exciting and there's a few hot scenes between Daemon and Katy because they do have some pretty great chemistry, but those weren't enough for me to love this book.I actually really liked Katy, despite finding her a bit annoying at times. Not only is she a book blogger in which I found myself reminiscing about how book blogging used to be a few years ago, and I found her much more relatable in that she would come home after a bad day, see a parcel of books waiting for her and she would get super excited. But she was also snarky, aggressive and different to a lot of other YA heroines. As for Daemon, the alien who is super hot and infuriating etc, I found him hotter toward the end of the story, but for the most part I just didn't give a shit about him at all. The other characters were all cardboard cutouts and essentially added nothing to the story.The writing was okay and I did find this super easy to read in the parts I wasn't bored out of my mind.Even the antagonists were hilariously bad. Like, there's this one scene where THEY'RE ACTUALLY MAKING HISSING SOUNDS WHEN THEY SPEAK AND I COULDN'T CONTAIN MY LAUGHTER. It was so absurd, it was hilarious. The antagonists are supposed to be this huge threat and everything but oh my god, they had no substance whatsoever which just ended up making them seem more like caricatures than anything else.Overall, this was super underwhelming and I'm pretty sure I gave myself an eye strain from rolling them so much. I might read the next book in the series to see if it improves, but I'm not getting my hopes up.