This review contains crude language, because I'm too pissed off to be eloquent at the moment. Reader beware.What the fuck did I just read? Seriously! What in the hell was that supposed to be?Spoilers ect ect ect.Everything I loved about the first book is completely gone, the author seems to have forgotten that he's telling a story rather than railing against organized religion almost non-stop, the characters seem to have been lobotomized, and it was just long, horribly boring, and extremely anti-climactic. It drags on, and on, and on, and really accomplishes very little, does not deliver on any of the promises made by the first book, and for a book about man killing god there's remarkably little god killing going on here. Come on Pullman, if you're going to have a man start a war with god, GO FOR THE GOLD, MAN. Go for some huge and epic confrontations, gigantic, world-shattering battles, Man screaming defiance in God's face. You know, something... ANYTHING other than a largely undescribed and frankly boring battle scene that takes up a chapter or so and ends with one of the most ridiculous and melodramatic suicides I've ever read of in fiction. Lord Asriel falls far short of his goal, and has to settle for killing God's underling. Mary Malone's side story is just completely pointless and only serves to take up space. A lot of space. While also managing to be completely uninteresting in every way on top of it. And the ending just drags on, and on pointlessly and impotently long after it should have wrapped things up and called it quits, but Pullman, it seems, just had to squeeze in a few more sermons.At the end it really seems like Pullman wanted to tell a huge and epic tale, but had no idea how to go about doing it, so he substituted rant after rant, and allegory after allegory instead, and these things were nowhere near as entertaining, or well reasoned out as he obviously thinks them to be. What started out as a very fun fantasy story with a great protagonist, truly menacing villains, and a highly inventive and interesting world became a pretentious, thinly strung together collection of lectures on the evils of organized religion held up on cue cards by stick figures that are sort of dressed like the characters in the first book. I'm very disappointed. There is a way to share your beliefs if you want to and still tell a good and entertaining story. Look atFaith of the Fallen by Terry Goodkindfor example. You don't have to sacrifice one for the other. Pullman, unfortunately, didn't realize this. This book was long, boring, pointless, and worst of all, highly disappointing. Perhaps it's a good thing that only the first book got made into a movie. I don't even know how the other two books would even be adapted into movies. It's so sad that it had to end this way. The first book was just soooooo good. What a waste. I don't think there was even a single part of this book that I actually enjoyed reading.I kept waiting for the author to put his dick away and get back to telling the story, but he never did. He just left it hanging out there in the wind as he stands upon his great and shining soapbox of justice... as foretold by prophecy... Yes, there are many arguments that can be made against any religion. And many of them have valid points. "Religion is bad *drops mike*" is not one of them. That's a four year old's argument, Pullman, you can do better than that, and you should be ashamed of yourself for not doing so. The biggest problem with this book is that Pullman didn't actually make, or prove any of his own points. He ranted against the evils of religion without ever actually naming what any of said evils are, saying how they impact the world and its people, and why he thinks they are evil. You know, how a well thought out argument would be put together? Pullman pretty much just says that religion is evil because reasons. If, in the end, your entire argument can be summarized by the two words "because reasons", you've failed to make an argument. Go back and try again. It's like he just likes to rant for the sake of ranting, rather than toward any sort of goal or purpose. I really don't mind if he wants to share his beliefs with me if it's in a well thought out and delivered way, while not forgetting that he's also telling a story. But that's not what this book is. It's not that I disagree with the argument that made me hate this book, it's how incompetently he delivered it that makes me hate it. I'm all for people having their own opinions and sharing them. But, you know, at least TRY to make a good showing of it when you do. Pathetic. Just plain pathetic.And by the end of it, I don't think even the author knows what Dust is actually supposed to be. He seems to change his mind on that pretty regularly throughout the trilogy, and, well, he just sort of hand waves it away as "meh whatever, it's not like the driving force of the first book is in any way important, you'd much rather hear about how Catholicism is the creation of hell, right?" It's just an arbitrary point of contention that has no meaning, definition, or purpose in the story except to be a vague, unexplained point of contention. And on top of that, any point you want to make in your book should never be so oppressive that it crushes all of the life, personality, enjoyability, and sense right out of the story. It should go hand in hand with the story, and work together with it to make a better whole in the end, rather than being the main focus of the book to the exclusion of every single thing else. And that's just not what happened here. He got a bug up his ass about making his point, and it became so heavy handed and oppressive that it utterly destroyed everything else in the story. Hugely disappointing. I went into this book wanting more of what I saw in the first book, but the author didn't really seem to care to finish that story, because he was too busy going off on rant after rant. I get it dude, you don't believe in god and you think organized religion does more harm than good. Did you have to beat me over the head with it until I see cartoon stars circling me?Let's put it another way. What did Lyra and Will learn during the course of the book? How are they better people in the end than they were at the beginning? What did they accomplish, and how will it affect anything? I can't answer these questions, because the author was too focused on preaching to me that he forgot to include something so simple, yet completely vital to a story, as basic character development in the book. Here's just one small example of the sheer incompetence in storytelling here. Remember how Mrs. Colter had complete control over all the Specters? That sure was awesome, wasn't it? Yeah, too bad the author didn't remember that. And that is just one of many, many, many abandoned, aborted, or just plain forgotten plotlines that the author ignored so that he could better spend his time preaching. In essence, Pullman is exactly what he despises most. Some asshole so full of himself that he won't stop preaching long enough to take a look at the world around him. Funny, eh?Oh yeah, and 12 year old true love? Yeah... bullshit.And to be clear, I am not bothered in the least by anti-religious sentiments. Other people are allowed to believe what they believe, and their doing so has no impact whatsoever upon what I believe. I AM bothered by incompetent idiots who wouldn't know how to put together a real and sound argument if their lives depended on it, and think that they're being very clever whilst completely failing to validate said argument in any way. I'm also bothered by assholes who try to pass off a rant on |&lt;---Insert Topic Here---&gt;| as a story, and writers who don't know the first thing about plot structure or character development. (I'm looking at YOU Rothfuss!!!) --read: the author is an arrogant moron who should go back to high school debate club and learn how to structure and support his arguments, then take a high school English class to learn the first thing about telling a story, before writing any more books kthxbai #wouldloseargumentstoafouryearold--