This book warrants a full-on, GIF-ridden review. You've been warned.Let me start out by saying this:So.....We have Ever. Yeah, EVER. Who names their kid EVER?! (There was also Honor, Haven and Stacia, but I digress.)Anyway, who would play Ever in the movie? A light switch. Think about it. She loves him, she hates him. She loves him, she hates him. She loves him, she wants to barf at the sight of him.So she almost died and now she has psychic powers. Which, by psychic powers, she means "being restricted to only wearing hoodies, acting like a total loon, constantly treating your friends like shit, going deaf on heavy metal, and generally being a lacking human being". How does anyone deal with her kind of crazy? Throughout the whole book, I never did get why she kept thinking psychic powers=hoodies.Then we have Damen, with an E. Not Damon, with an O.See, even Damon with an O thinks that's dumb. Oh, and Damen's last name is Auguste. Was somebody really trying to recreate a Salvatore brother? Hm? Got a nice Italian/Spanish sounding name and dark hair....and viola!Now, he's an "immortal". But he drinks weird red shit (which is never fully explained and being red, sparkly and keeping him immortal I can only assume is magical unicorn blood), screws with people's heads, is insanely fast and strong, is psychic, and down-right creepy. So, I'm sorry, Noel, but you just invented thevampire. Good for you. Idiot.And he falls for the emotionless, creepy loner girl that is gorgeous but doesn't seem to notice, ala Edward Cullen. And thus the selfish stupidity ensues. He flirts with her, then her worst enemy, then her, then the enemy again. Then a bunch of pointless teenage drama happens. They make out. She decides she hates him because.....???? I never could follow why she hated him half the time. Because he didn't give up his phone number....???Somebody dies. Ever worries more about Damen than the dead girl. Her best friend almost dies. She worries more about Damen than the best friend. Oh, and let's not forget she's seeing the ghost of her dead sister and kinda holding her hostage, saying things to the tune of "I can't lose you too! I know you're giving up Heaven and our parents, but STILL! I need you here! Deal!" I haven't seen this much selfishness since....uh....Twilight.And that brings me around to the Twilight rip-off checklist:1. vampire (oops, I mean immortal)- check2. human love interest- check3. mind-reading- check4. emotionless main character- check5. stupid red-haired bad girl bent on killed MC- check6. strange lovey feelings near vampire (immortal. whatever)- check7. MC hating her life and being ungrateful of everything and everyone- checkI'm sure there's more, but you get the point. If you take a shot for every similarity, you'll be dead in minutes.I hated this book. Especially when it came down to "the power of love" saving the fucking day. Yes, we pulled a Halo and love wins the war. Damen'swife, I repeat WIFE, is angry he's in love with someone else, (shocker!), and Everkills her. (Granted, Drina was a crazy bitch, but she WAS married to Damen and all.) She punches her in the chest, the heart chakra, and itkills herbecause she's lacking in love (and Ever has so much?). I. Just. Stared.Somebody thumped an immortal's breastbone and she croaked. No, there's no punchline. I didn't make it up. This shit really happened. A 600-year-old immortal (vampire. whatever.) got taken down by a whiny little teenager with a girly punch.And what was Damen doing BOTH times Ever (the supposed love of his life) was fighting for her life against his wife? Not coming to her rescue until he was "sure" she really wanted to live. Let that sink in: he refused to come save her until she voiced, and voiced believably, that she really didn't want to DIE. Your wife is beating the shit out of the woman you love, and you don't DO ANYTHING?The whole story made me sick. It made no effing sense. Summerland. Sparkly red drinks. Damen screwing with her memories and trying to convince her she didn't really see him bleeding her bestie on the living room rug. The power of LOVE saving the day. SMHEver has some pretty serious trauma to deal with, but every time someone offer her counseling, help with her powers, a shoulder to cry on, she flips the fuck out and gets defensive. Like helping her NOT be a nut is the worst idea on the planet. Like the other psychic who is trying to help her let go of her guilt is the BAD GUY. Instead, she chooses to self-medicate with vodka, drive drunk and get expelled. I wanted to smack Ever. With a fish.Plus, the story was so easy to figure out I didn't even have to finish the damn book to know what had/would/was happening. There was no real surprise, although the acid-induced Summerland place was a bit of a weird shocker. More like a scene thought up while high than anything relevant.To sum it up, this book made my angry. Ever was ungrateful, bitchy, emotionless. I can't figure out how Damen is in love with her (insta-love, of all things). And Damen is the Edward Cullen-wannabe, creepy, sneak-into-your-room-and-watch-you-sleep kinda stalker.The other characters were rather pointless.In conclusion:What I wanted to do when I finished this stupid book: