I told myself that I honestly wasn't going to read this book after my friend, Aysha, came up to me one day just praising the book. I read about twelve pages and then gave up, I had enough of all things with the words dark and romance in it after reading Twilight. Nonetheless, I just saw this book sitting on a shelf at my local library and the prospect of making a bad review about it on Goodreads just made me happy, so here we are. There might be about one or two spoilers in the book, but don't worry it won't spoil anything. It would be better to read a review than the book.So we're introduced to the main protagonist, Ever Bloom, who is basically a pathetic, vain, stupid twat. She was moved to a new school after her parents, sister and dog died in a car crash, now ever since this car crash she has the power to see the people's auras and know what the person's thinking with a touch. In other words she's a psychic, but they're extra features to this too. She is so 'distraught' by this she has a complete change of personality, from being insanely popular at her old school and then just hanging out with two vain, shallow and vaguely important people, Haven and Miles. I guess we're actually meant to feel sorry for her after all she's been through, but no, I haven't even got a teeny tiny bit of sympathy for her.We are then after about 12 pages introduced to Damen. He is the worst bloody character out of the whole book. That arsehole comes up to the school as a new student and everyone and I mean everyone is practically drooling at the sight of his good looks except one effin person and I'm sure you can guess who that is. Ever decides that she's not going to look at him because she can just listen to everyone's thoughts and is basically not interested. They are forced to sit next to each other in class (To any people who have read Twilight, I wonder where she got that from xD), they accidentally touch and Ever feel so normal (wouldn't you be freaked out?) because she can't listen to his thoughts. He flirts with her and at lunch he ends up sitting at Ever and her friend's table.After a while Ever and Damen form a 'relationship' out of god knows where-there are many parts in which our dear author here submits bits of information without us knowing, it's either that or I was too bored to notice. I also put relationship in speech marks because you cannot call it a bloody relationship. One minute we see Ever calling Damen a player and the next she's sticking her tongue down his throat. Eh? Wouldn't you be disgusted if you saw a boy that you liked being seen with another girl (even after he said he liked you) or the fact that when the two of you go out somewhere he keeps disappearing. The EXACT same thing happened to Ever but with one of Damen's hot, smoldering, sexy looks or touches Ever just melts like an ice lolly.Yep so the rest of the book is utter bullshit which encourages things like cheating, drinking vodka at sixteen, betting and much more stuff. But what I've just told you is nothing these are the things that I hate the most in the book:1) It's sooo convenient.Oh yuss, Immortals can see people's aura's (WTF?), they are super strong, they are super fast, Ever's reincarnation, immortal serum made long long ago and many more that I have forgotten.2) Damen is described as the most perfect person in the universe. He can cook, clean, is handsome, can surf and many more things that I've forgotten, but how can a person be perfect, be talked about as perfect when there is no such thing as a perfect person. Even though he is 600 years old (wow and Ever is completely normal with that) he cannot possibly have mastered everything. It's just impossible. See The Doctor in Doctor Who is about 907 and something and he is far from perfect. Everyone knows that perfect people are boring.3) Tulips and Summerland. When reaching the middleish part when Damen just starts to pull out hundreds and hundreds of tulips out of nowhere I was actually starting to think that he actually took his time to pick the tulips and rain them down on Ever, but the world would be in a massive crisis if it did. So dear Alyson Noel decides to make this rule which is basically you can conjure something from nothing. It doesn't make any sense, it's another convenient thing.4) Alyson Noel. The writing is poor and she hardly describes things, she tells us rather than shows us. Also the fact that she's mentioned some points in her book like Ever having no backbone and Damen being perfect etc and she's done nothing to improve it is just sad.To sum this review up I'll have to say that Ever is slightly better than Bella and Edward is slightly better than Damen, but Twilight and Evermore are just very very similar books. I advise you not to read either.