I've been devouring YA supernatural fiction lately, and after having gone through some good and some mediocre, I finally stumbled upon Evermore, which quickly proved to be neither good nor mediocre, just plain bad.Ever Bloom is the most vain, shallow, egocentric, selfish, and mentally deficient character I've ever had the unfortunate pleasure of getting to know. She begrudges anyone else's happiness, ignores her friends when it suits her, turns into a doormat at the most unlikely times, and is mean to people without reason. I've read the first three books in this series and I can honestly say I've yet to find ONE redeeming quality in her. There is nothing good. Take a spoiled, nasty cheerleader and give her some emotional baggage and a psychic gift and you've pegged Ever Bloom. She's also insecure to the point of ridiculousness. I know about insecurity, but COME ON.Damen Auguste is a walking cliche'. Devastatingly handsome, mysterious, runs hot and cold, Ever feels "drawn" to him and gets all "tingly" whenever he's around. He drives a BMW, wears designer clothes, blah, blah, blah. What is he LIKE? Hard to say since you don't really get to know him in the first book.The rest of the characters are also walking cliche's. There's the affection-deprived goth friend, Haven, who spends her time trying to get people to pay attention to her, even going so far as to attend 12-step meetings for afflictions she doesn't have (Fight Club, anyone?). She's hardly ever nice to anyone, yet for some strange reason, everyone puts up with her BS. True to form, she is also a complete moron.Then there's the flamboyantly gay Miles who dreams of becoming an actor and does nothing but text non-stop.Ever's aunt Sabine is a power attorney who's mostly absent. No real getting to know her, either.The villain of this particular installment is Damen's "wife", Drina, who admits to having killed Ever so many times in the past that it's now become a bore. But that doesn't seem to stop her from continuing to do so, deriving some pleasure out of being....a stalker. She has eternity and THAT'S how she chooses to spend her time? Ever is just SO important.Gag me.I wish I hadn't bought it, but hey, sh*t happens.