Eh, I don't really like this book. The story isn't very original or creative. The whole "you are immune to my painfully annoying superpowers" is really cliche and has been done way too many times before. The whole OMG-Damen's-so-hot-and-sexy thing is kind of stupid and superficial. Plus, Noel never actuallydescribesDamen; she just says he's really hot. Um, excuse me? Hot is an opinion thing. I want you to show me how Damen looks like so I can decide if he's hot or not. Jeez.And Damen - ugh. I hate him, he's such a stupid character. He's a complete Edward knockoff; Noel basically stole all his traits and actions from Twilight. Except he's nowhere near as charming as Edward; in fact, I find him to be extremely annoying, whiny, and pushy, not to mention the fact that he's a total player, sex-wanter, and a really flat and cliche character. Overall, he's really boring. I don't get what Ever sees in him.Oh, and Ever's a really flat character, too. *sigh* It annoys me when MCs are flat ...This book was really hard to read - it was going at a really slow pace, and I'd basically lost most of my interest after the first few pages. I don't like abandoning books, but I really wanted to stop reading this. The whole time I was reading it, I just wanted it to end.As for the wholeimmortalsconcept - Noel does a poor job of creating her own concept. First of all, immortals are basically vampires with a different name, except for the bloodsucking part. And Noel just kind of dumps all this information about them on us at the end, in one big rush, and she doesn't even explain them well. There's so many things that don't make sense. How do immortalsbecomeimmortal? (She tried to explain it with some weird drink, but it was a feeble attempt. We didn't even know what's in the drink or how it's made.) When did Damen become immortal, and how'd he get his hands on this "drink"? Why can't Ever read Damen or Drina's minds if all immortals can read each other's minds? What's up with the whole reincarnation thing with Ever? If she wasn't immortal in past lives, why did she kept getting reborn? And if Damen made her an immortal when she died in the car accident, then why doesn't she have the strength and speed as Damen and Drina?This is just a very poorly explained, not to mention really stupid, concept. Noel didn't succeed in coming up with something new.Oh, another thing that bothered me: A quarter through the book, Ever mentions that she can see dead people, all the time. But then she never says it again, or makes any indication that she sees ghosts everywhere. Which is stupid.And what about Ava? What's up with her? Is she an immortal or not? Noel never bothered to say. And if she's not an immortal, how can she read minds? Is this a skill going around humans now? Ugh. Plus it doesn't make any sense why Ever can't readhermind.As for Damen and Ever's relationship - it's purely physical, and that really ticks me off. Ever is just obsessed with Damen's hotness, and Damen just wants sex from her. Ugh.To wrap up, I just want to say that I reallydidn'tenjoy this book, and I really wish I hadn't bought this before I read it. I'm not going to keep this book; I'll just give it to one of my friends or something. And I'mdefinitelynot reading the second book. I think enough of my brain cells have died, thank you very much. Lol.Don't read this book unless you're willing to kill your brain cells and give yourself headaches, or if you want to read something shallow, boring, and pointless about physical attraction and the struggle to have sex or not. Bleh. &gt;.&lt;