"What a spiffling whoppsy room we is in! It is so gigantuous I is needing bicurculers!"Please kill me now. No, I mean it. Seriously. Kill me now."I am brimfull of buzzburgers, This is a sizzling-hot muckfrumping country..."Please, God. Oh please, please God, make it stop, make it stop, just make it..."What a phizz-whizzing flushbunking seat. I is going to be as bug as a snug in a rug up here..."NOOOO!! Sweet mother of God!!!!Am I still alive? Is it over? Please tell me it's over.I scan through these 5-star reviews, and I feel like I'm on crazy pills. This book is awful! It's unendurable. This is a classic? How? How? Nothing happens in it. There is no story. There is no wit. There is no magic. Giant Country might as well be Walmart, for all the magic it evokes. Flat! Dull! Dull! And then there's the cave. The cave! I've read some of these 4-star reviews - they grudgingly admit that their kid's attention began to wander somewhere in the middle....yeah, yeah, yeah, admit it! They hated it! It's the Emperor's New Clothes! I know caves. Caves can be magical. Plato's cave. Tom Sawyer's cave. Robinson Crusoe's cave. Those are magical caves. This cave? Not magical. This is not a magical cave. This is the boringest cave ever. What transpires in this cave? Nothing. I kid you not - nothing. Nothing transpires in this cave. 100 pages transpire in this cave. Two thirds of this book, literally a full two thirds, consists of a single unending dialogue in this cave between Sophie and the Giant. Sophie asks a question, and the Giant answers in his INSUFFERABLE DIALECT!!!!, providing some cutesy, backwards explanation about how things work in Giant Country. Then she asks another question. And he answers. Back and forth. And the answers are invariably moronic, punny, unfunny, uninteresting, and utterly irrelevant. They are winks at the adult reader. His entire personality, his every utterance, is a wink at the adult reader. He is not an attempt at character creation. No Big Friendly Giant would ever say these things. He is a fraud. This whole book is a fraud. I kept waiting for the dialogue to end, so something would happen. No luck. It just kept going and going and going, chapter after chapter after chapter....I love children's fantasy novels. I love them. I teach them, for God's sakes! But this book is a load of swashbickling scrumdiddliumptious crap. I am genuinely mystified by the love this book engenders in people. Am I raping people's childhood by suggesting this? This book raped my adulthood.Kids know. They know. I began by reading this to my 7 year-old daughter. This was supposed to be our nightly bonding ritual. We started. A few evenings went by. She seemed restless. She seemed distracted. She kept picking her toes. After 4 chapters, I noticed a definite shift. She started avoiding me come sundown. She would look at the clock and get nervous. She kept finding excuses to get out of story-time. She was tired. She was drawing. She had a headache. I pleaded. I coaxed. I offered bribes. Nothing. No good. "Let's watch the trailer again, Daddy!" The trailer. She prefers the trailer! She likes the big hand that comes in the window. She likes John Williams. She likes Mark Rylance, I think. And so here I sit, book on lap, daughter somewhere else in the house - playing, living, being free - and I stare heavily downwards, sunken heart, faced with the unthinkable prospect of having to finish the goddamn thing myself.And I did, somehow. Sweet Jesus. It was painful. Insincere. Affected. Artificial. Tedious.Just so you know, my daughter and I sped through Baum's The Wizard of Oz in about a week. Two, sometimes three chapters a night. She loved it. Couldn't get enough of it. You know why? Because kids know. They know, I tell you. How do parents not know? Why do parents keep inflicting this book on their poor, helpless children? Because of the message? Bullying is bad? Being different is okay? Do the right thing? Here's a good message: don't read shit to your children. Please, stop it, now. Read them Dr. Seuss. Read them Wizard of Oz. Read them Peter Pan. Read them The Wind in the Willows. Read them The Enchanted Castle. Just not this. For the sake of the children.Because they know.