This book--play?--has ADD. Seriously.We start in heaven, with Mephistopheles making some sort of vague deal with God to try and get a Doctor Faust damned. They say that this Faust is some sort of a Job, even though we then cut to him despairing enough to contemplate suicide--and he hasn't even met Mephistopheles yet! The demon then turns into a poodle--seriously-follows him in from a brief walk, and ends up making a deal with him. I'm not really sure about the deal because they throw in all sorts of confusing asides about "you can take me to Hell in the hour I wish for that hour to last longer" or something. It ends up being just when his natural lifespan ends, he goes straight to hell. Mephistopheles finds him a girl to seduce whose name is either Gretchen or Margareta--apparently Gretchen is a shortening of the name, but nobody told me that, and I never would have guessed--and then he leaves to go cavort with witches and fairies. When he comes back, she's in jail for having killed her mother and his baby. She wants to die, and Mephistopheles hauls Faust off as the jailers come. Why? Wouldn't Faust's death now mean he goes straight to hell? End Part One.Part Two opens with a pastoral scene of fairies doing vague things. This is the literary version of Bambi's mother's death. We bounce around with various kings fighting, and then the story turns into an Iliad fanfic, pairing up Helen of Troy with Faust. She dies. Faust gets old and dies, then the angels come and swipe him out of Mephistopheles's grasp. No, they don't really explain this. It might be because he "strove," but if that's it, then what we have is a mess of works righteousness--and what's more, these good actions that saved him were not shown!This book is crazy. I read that it took Goethe sixty years on-and-off to write, and it looks as if he didn't bother to go over what he'd written before. The plot halts for long stretches, characters we've never met before spout a few lines as their introduction and leave, and Faust himself is often left in the dust. There's one particularly long section in which we follow a homunculus and philosopher around, without even Mephistopheles to pretend this has anything to do with the rest of the story. Random bits of mythology are injected whenever possible, whether it makes any sense or not.Maybe other versions of Faust are better, I don't know. If it had stopped at Part One, it would have worked, but it didn't. I only read this because Faust was in The Band Wagon. The Band Wagon is awesome. Go watch that instead.