Edited to Add a Disgruntled Reader's Reply at the Bottom. Apparently, I don't know how to write reviews.The best thing about this book? The end.I don't read chick-lit. In fact, I avoid it like the plague. But this book received rave reviews from every single person on my friendlist. So I thought, hey, why not? Maybe this won't be like the formulaic Mary Kate and Ashley movies my teachers made me watch in first grade. Maybe Anna will be smart and witty. And maybe Etienne will be awesome.I'm too optimistic.Like The Duff, this book suffers from wish fulfillment:http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php...Please don't tell me this book is realistic. I beg to differ. It's a fantasy. And there's nothing wrong with that, except when the protagonist is a self righteous, hypocritical bitch.I've never been able to relate to rich annoying white girls, which is rather strange, considering that 40% of my K-12 experience was spent with them. I can relate to wizards, dragon riders, and thieves, but not this special brand of Mary Sue. She's a combination of a Relationship Sue, a Black Hole Sue, and she's something of an Anti-Sue.http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php...http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php...http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php...Anna also has an extreme case of dickmatization. I love that word. If you're reading, thank you for introducing it to me Princess.Dickmatized: When a girl can not concentrate on anything else because she is distracted with the DICK of her latest piece of ass. Her work is jeopardized, she's a sell out to her girlfriends, she picks up his shit including his kids or whatever. She will do whatever it takes for the DICK. Even if the dick isn't all that great, she doesn't know the difference because she is dickmatized.If we take Anna out of the equation, this could be a decent book. But as it stands, I can't bother to care about her petty melodramatic woes. Don't get me wrong, the supporting cast wasn't bad, though they were carbon copies of every single cast from every other teen romantic comedy. The author takes potshots at Nicholas Sparks for using cancer as a plot device, but she does the same thing. If anything, at least Sparks is a little original. He uses a different disease every single time. It seems like Perkins watched a few Disney specials and decided to write a book staringHillary Duff,Ashley Olsen,Mary Kate Olsen, a quirky original heroine. And, judging by the positive reviews, she succeeded. Well, if Stephenie Meyer doesn't get you, Stephanie Perkins will.Anna is kind of like Miles Halter, from Looking for Alaska. But Miles actually fits in with his group. Anna is like a fanfiction writer's brilliant, but failed attempt, at creating an OC. She attracts the attention of almost all the guys in the book, sans three -- her brother, her ex boyfriend, and Josh, the boyfriend of her "friend". She's beautiful and her arch-enemy is the evil, "slutty", rat faced Amanda. She's a complete rip-off of Lauren from, How to Be Popular.And, coincidentally, Anna attracts the attention of Etienne St. Clair, the hottest guy in school. When he walks past, girls gape. Right. This is me rolling my eyes. But wait, Etienne has a girlfriend: Ellie. Yup, Ellie is our contrived bullshit roadblock, the reason why our two fated lovers cannot be together.I'd like to write a bit about conflict. If your hero has a bitchy girlfriend and your MC is "supposedly" nice, he looks like an idiot when he stays with that girlfriend. For a love triangle to work, there must be a valid reason as to why the girl or guy is caught in the middle of two people. Demeaning one of the love interests is not only low, but it makes me think you were too afraid to write a real relationship that didn't revolve around cliches and tropes.It's rather humorous that every girl Anna dislikes is evil and every guy she dislikes is either dirty, or a dick. Yet her friends and "true love" St. Clair himself, are clean, attractive, and ever so intelligent. This is bullshit.If this were a play, I'd call it Anna and the French Dick.Let's get acquainted with the rest of our cast.Ellie: St. Clair's girlfriend. She's plain and doesn't appreciate her friends which is why Anna is better than her.Bridgette: She's Anna's bestfriend. She also "steals" Anna's "boyfriend".Amanda: Blonde. Bitchy. Catty. "Slutty". Give me a fucking break.Meredith: Sporty, smart, in love with St. Clair. Amanda calls her a dyke. I hated Anna for using her and abusing their friendship. Heads up. Do not abandon your friends for a guy. Especially when you know that your friend likes that guy. You are a bitch if you don't have the guts to talk to her and explain that the guy likes you, not her. Hmm... sounds like Anna's beef with Bridgette. Moving on.Anna: Judgmental. Hypocritical. Self righteous. Brunette. Yeah. She basically shits on everyone who doesn't agree with her, or who stands in the way of St. Clair's dick. Her quirk? She knows a lot of shit about old movies. It was contrived and I didn't get half of the movies she namedropped. John Green, you do it better.Josh: A mouthpiece for how awesome St. Clair is. According to him, when you flirt with two girls, even if you have a girlfriend, you're not leading them on.Etienne St. Clair: Resident Marty Stu. His mother is dying from cancer. His father is evil. Every guy in school wants to be him. Every girl wants to date him. Every guy he doesn't like is evil. And he's the most attractive guy in the world. Even the way he chews gives Anna an orgasm. It's pathetic. His only flaw? He's too much of a coward to dump his girlfriend. But, honestly, that's only for the convenience of the plot. Take Anna out of the picture, and I might have liked St. Clair if the author didn't use Josh as a mouthpiece for how awesome he is.David: A dick. He liked Anna.Toph: A dick. He liked Anna.Matt: Anna's ex. He's a slob.Rashmi: Our token PoC. She has no relevance to the plot other than to be our shipper on deck. In another story, I would've liked her. In this book, she's only there to make Anna feel better than Ellie.Not only does Perkins fail to wrap up Anna's conflict with her parents -- something even Kody Keplinger, who's debut was like a mash-up of All American Girl and Perfect You, managed to do -- but she also delivered two very special messages in the last fifty pages. We get some bullshit "slut shaming is wrong" message, though Anna spent 300pgs whining about how unfair her life was when Ellie, that plain girl, was sleeping with St. Clair, and in the first 50pgs, she made a remark about Amanda's cleavage. Then we get two paragraphs of "gay is okay". I know that making fun of gay people is wrong. And I know that slut shaming is wrong. I don't need you, Perkins, to step on your soapbox and convince me that Anna is a beautiful PC person like PC Cast does with Zoey Redbird.Never again will I fall prey to the hype. Granted, this is romantic fluff, but that's no excuse. The writing was decent, but give me Sara Zarr, Sarah Dessen, or Elizabeth Scott over Stephanie Perkins. Hell, I'd rather read the entire Twilight Saga than read this again.In case you couldn't tell, I didn't like this book. 1.5 stars.Date Comment Deleted:12/4/11Commentator:V. Arrow (aimmyarrowshigh)Reason:Apparently, I don't know how to write a valid criticism of a contemporary romance.Comment:If you have never taken a class on media criticism -- and I'd venture that you haven't -- the first rule of critique is that you should judge within the same genre and for its intent and purpose. The genre of this book is YA contemp romance. Does it fulfill a romantic plotline without straying into age-inappropriate issues? Yes. It fulfills the genre criteria. The main audience of YA contemp romance: middle-class and upper-middle class English-speaking girls between 14-54.Does this book cohesively create a fictional construct that would reflect and be recognizable in their world? Yes. There is nothing wrong with a book about "first world problems" when the purpose and intent of the book is to be a romance for teenagers. Insofar as actual criticism, Anna and the French Kiss is tantamount to being a perfect example of its genre and fulfilling the purpose for its audience.So again the question begs: if you knew you would not like it, and did not know how to adequately and maturely review it after choosing to read something you were predisposed to disliking, why bother?My reply:I write contemporary romance. I write romcoms. I think I know a little about the common tropes found in the genre. I've read almost every popular romcom script and written lengthy reviews for several popular bromances. I was actually going to major in Film before I realized my university only offered media arts, at which point I decided to choose Architecture. I'd wager that V. needs to do a little bit more research on me before she decides to comment on my reviews.Regardless of the genre, a novel shouldn't make use of old boring tropes without trying to apply any sort of originality to them. This read like a re-hash of every single bad teen movie I've ever seen. And, frankly, that's tiring. Even worse? It adds nothing new to the genre. Now, romcoms are very formulaic, but that's no excuse. (500) Days of Summer was a success because it added an extra dimension to Boy Meets Girl, Boy Loses Girl, Boy Gets Girl Back.Now, instead of getting upset at my criticism, I suggest that if V. wants to comment here again, she looks at the points I made and tries to debate those instead of getting in a huff over a book she rated five stars receiving negative criticism. Because, really, telling me that I don't know how to review is rather dim when she doesn't know how to have a proper debate.By the way, all of the books I referenced in this review are vastly superior contemporary romances. Also, I will never understand the "if you don't like it, don't read it argument," as I'm not a mind reader. I've read books and scripts I didn't expect to like (Legally Blonde) and I came away thoroughly impressed. So, no, that argument is not valid.