Thankfully negative reviews are somewhat of a rare commodity for me. In the case of The Shipping News, it's difficult to find any positives, simply down to Proulx's writing style which I never could grasp hold of, along with dialogue that annoyed the hell out of me. The star of the show if there was to be one, is Newfoundland itself, the characters I struggled to feel anything for, even in the more moving moments, I am still left though with a mixed reaction. I wondered what Proulx had against relative pronouns and conjunctions. I stumbled over sentences after sentence trying to accommodate myself with it, worst luck, it stayed like this for the entirety.Down on his luck Journalist Quoyle, with young daughters Bunny and Sunshine in tow, heads to Newfoundland to hopefully reignite his floundering life, leaving New York, and a dead wife behind he travels to stay with his Aunt Agnis in a run down ancestral home right by the sea, it's remote, it's bleak, it's cold. He would take a job writing of the shipping news across the water for a paper called...wait for it...the gammy bird. The other characters in the book also have odd names, there's Wavey Prowse, Tert Card, Beaufield Nutbeem, Diddy Shovel and Alvin Yark, 10/10 for imagination. Becoming acquainted with the locals, Quoyle sutters along in life whilst trying to adapt to his surroundings, all the while weary of his daughters, and the affect it had on their own upbringing.Proulx does do a wonderful job when describing Newfoundland, this was just about as good as it got for me, and after a promising opening setting the scene, I actually was looking forward in a positive light. However, the prose style is a big sticking point, and the pacing didn't suit me either, which, quite frankly was all over the place. To it's credit, it certainly wasn't dull, the characterisation was pretty good, But apart from Quoyle, aunt, and daughters, I didn't like spending time with any others, had I lived in a trailer, wore a Budweiser cap, and went boating I may have done.Someone mentioned to me they would rather read of Newfoundland than go there. I disagree, would gladly get out my winter warmers and stand on the rocks staring into the fog, than read this again. As for a Pulitzer prize, the competition was either weak or non-existent.Not all bad, just not my cup of tea. 2/5.