There's so much buzz generating around this one, that although I've always tried to ignore hype, after reading all these gushing reviews from bloggers I follow I had high expectations - I was, unfortunately, let down by the time I was halfway though. It started strong with a lot of potential. But it didn't take long before I already had most of it figured out and the last few twists that were there, didn't please me much. Take our MC, Karou. At first I was thrilled by this 17 year old artsy girl who lead these two lives. One being the mysterious friend/ student without a family and the other who is a part of this whole other world. Loved and loving these creatures that one would cringe away from made me see and admire a whole other side of her - a side I could get used to, but it's when the romantic interest made his appearance that things started going a little downhill.A part of me is quite impressed by the characters and plot. Sure we've seen the creatures before, the romeo and Juliet styled love interest, but the author has managed to interweave all these aspects in the novel and make it all somehow completely unique and turn it into her own. I acknowledged that early on and I appreciate it, I really do, but I can't help but feel that something just isn't there.Although I did enjoy the setting and some parts of the plot, I think what really knocked it down a few stars for me was my complete lack of connection with the characters. I really did not find myself caring for even one. That's kind of bad right? Sure our protagonist is on the badass side at first, but once again, once the boy is introduced she turns to mush. Also, I can't get past the fact of who she is (those who have read the book will be aware of what I'm talking about) although now I realise it was pivotal to the rest of the story, but I just wish that it didn't have to take such an easy, predictable root. Giving it this forbidden Romeo and Juliet vibe. I felt like the book had so much potential that it didn't even need to make this apparent transition on solely focusing on the romance. Because that's what I feel it did. Somewhat copped - out on the story and just threw itself into this romance that I really did not care for.A few times I considered having a break. I lost interest more than once and the pace was starting to drag. Not a good sign at all. Eventually something would happen and I'd continue. In all honesty, I wanted to like it, finish it and be proved wrong. I saw such promise in the book and the first few chapters were strong enough to pique my interest. Sadly it just didn't last. You may have noticed that I've tried to stay on the vague side about certain things than I tend to in my reviews, and this is to make sure that you can pick up on them and decide for yourselves when it comes to you reading the book itself.There are glowing reviews, and people seem to have fallen head over heels in love with THE DAUGHTER OF SMOKE AND BONE, so I'd definitely recommend you keep an open mind since I might just be one of the odd one's out.