How can I say this to you? This is one of the most boring books I've ever had the displeasure of reading.I was really looking forward to reading this book. Everyone was so enthusiastic about it. I was saving it for myself as a little treat.By page 27 I knew I was in trouble.Here's the book:LOG ENTRY:I'm fucked.Oh, wait! I have an idea!Science, science science. Then if I science science science, science.Great! [Insert lame joke here].Now imagine this repeating 1,000 times.Watney's stranded on Mars - there's no one there for him to interact with. Also, he's apparently a person with no human feelings. Seriously. There's no doubt, worry, fear, anger or despair - even though he's stranded on a desolate wasteland and his death is imminent.Weir doesn't even make an ATTEMPT to channel human emotions at any point in the novel. I don't know whether this is because he is a terrible author, struggles with lack of feeling himself, or, what I most suspect: that this is an extremely intelligent man's daydream about how someone could survive on Mars and NOT a novel. The book is like a science textbook with random lame jokes sprinkled on top. NO - more as if someone had asked Weir to write a thesis on how to survive on Mars, and yet allowed him to throw in as many "fucks" and lame jokes as he wanted. Whichever it is, it wasn't what I would consider a novel.Then, you have Earth. What is going on there? We have multiple people on Earth. Perhaps these people will provide us with the dialogue and human emotion I'm craving.Mmmmm-mmmmm, nope. This is how Earth goes:PERSON A: Science science science.PERSON B: Well, my theory is science science.PERSON C: We'll have to do science science science.PERSON A: Fuck you!PERSON B and C: Working for the government sucks, ha ha ha.That's it. That's the riveting emotion you get here. Not even a semblance of any human relationships or interactions that aren't based on scientific discussions.I was attached to and cared about exactly zero people in this book. I didn't care if Watney lived or died. I didn't care if the people on Earth discovered he was alive or not. I didn't care. Nothing Weir wrote made me feel anything for anyone in this novel.I'm willing to bet that Weir is a very intelligent man and a great software engineer. But he's NOT a great author. This book was horrible. I could have easily and happily DNFed at any point in this book. The only reason I made myself finish it was so that I could write this review and express my opinion as someone who had read the whole thing.Tl;dr - Boring, bloodless and completely devoid of any humanity. A textbook with some jokes scattered here and there. I can completely understand why my engineering friends IRL are going apeshit for this book, however, it holds no appeal at all for me.The movie, even if it sucks, will most likely be 10x better than this. There's no possible way it could be worse.Famous last words, Carmen.LOL We'll see.