Well, here goes nothing.....This is not a good book.I tried. I really, really tried. I wanted to love it at first. Then, I wanted to at least like it. Then, I wanted to at least have something good to say about it since everyone loves it and it's everywhere right now. Maybe it's just the hype, I thought. Maybe things pick up and the story gets better, I hoped. Maybe the book just sucks, I ultimately decided.Maybe my expectations were off. I guess when I read about how an astronaut was stranded on Mars I didn't expect to feel like he was actually on vacation somewhere. Mark's sarcasm and sense of humor about the situation added some comic relief in the beginning, but it never ended. He never seemed to be afraid, and he always, always, ALWAYS had a witty one-liner to end his log entry or other communication. It never ended. Stuff about gay space probes, space pirates, disco, etc. just kept coming. I felt like Marc was on vacation with a perfect plan for everything he needed to do when things started to go wrong. Even when his plan didn't work, he had another plan.He's in SPACE! He is TRAPPED all by himself on MARS! I wanted to care, but I couldn't stand him. And he didn't seem to care either. The only thing that kept me reading was the stuff from Earth, but all of those characters had almost zero development. The dialogue was choppy and uninspired. Even when there was supposed to be some type of emotion or desperation expressed, I didn't feel it.You could also take out 95% of the log entries from Mark and still follow the story. Mark does this. Then, he does this. Next, he does that. Finally, his plan works and he watches TV. Then, he does this. He calculates that. He waits. He moves rocks. He does some other stuff. It just never ends. It also adds nothing to the story, just to the length of the book.Anyway, I was either bored or annoyed most of the time. The author is obviously a space nerd, not a writer. I gave it my best shot, but this one is awarded the prize of First One-Star Rating of 2015. Congratulations.