Published in English asPippi LongstockingWhere do I even start? Should I open with a standard guilty disclaimer for disliking yet another childhood staple? How about a shameful admission that reading between the lines has never worked for me? Or perhaps a simple statement about being too old to enjoy children's books?First and foremost, we have the super-duper-awesome Pippi, who, despite being an orphaned 9-year old, is filthy rich, strong, independent, and does whatever the hell she pleases, albeit firmly within the boundaries of kindness. At the same time, our enterprising heroine's antics are almost always compared to her friends' complete rule-abiding behavior, making the latter seem a prerequisite of sorts.The end result is a story made up of an odd mix of "eff the rules" vs "rules exist for a reason". Should children follow Pippi's lead in being more independent, thinking for themselves and always questioning authority before conforming? Or should they go the tried and true route, like Tommy and Annika did, and thus managing to seamlessly integrate into the adult society.I kept being baffled by Pippi's immediate hostility innon-threateningsituations (being quizzed on her Math knowledge at school), or her default kindness in clearlythreateningsituations (serving cookies to burglars who just tried to rob her).Most of the time however, it seemed impossible not to pity the poor girl: constantly being told that she lacked manners, yet never explaining the how and whys of them. Even the school teacher, otherwise the nicest adult Pippi comes in contact with, ends up suggesting that Pippi come back later, in lieu of learning to behave.Did she think Pippi was an unripe fruit, that'd "magically" gain manners after being left out in the sun for a bit?!Score: 2/5 starsI swear Itriedto read up on reviews both favorable and unfavorable. Except forManny's explanation regarding children's rights, or rather, lack thereof, none of them helped shed a light on the book's message.For all that I'm not normally expecting to have a moral at the end of a story, Pippi's story felt like it was trying to hit you with it over the head. If only I could figure out what the anvil-sized lesson was all about...