My Spoiler-Heavy and Sympathy-Free Review of "The Lost Symbol" by Dan BrownThis review is going to be riddled with spoilers, to the point where I'm actually going to tell you everything that happens (in summary), because that's the only way I can express my complete and utter contempt for this book. However, due to the nature of search engines, etc., I don't want to spoil things off the back. So I'll start off with a few non-spoilery things just for padding.Everything I say is based on the fact that there are two books in The Lost Symbol; the first book is the DaVinci Code with find/replace done. The second book is a philosophy book, and that's the real source of my vitriol. You'll understand why when I start spewing, well, vitriol at it.Before I begin, I would like to point out that Dan Brown believes in the Myth of the Flat Earth (see Wiki). There's a quote from one of the main characters that "Peter once compared Noetic Scientists to the early explorers who were mocked for embracing the heretical notion of a spherical earth. Almost overnight, these explorers went from fools to heroes, discovering uncharted worlds and expanding the horizons of everyone on the planet." (Keep in mind who's being cited in the paragraph) The fact that Brown believes this myth seriously undermines his credibility. How can we trust someone on esoteric matters when they're wrong on mundane matters?I also want to state for the record that I sorta enjoyed DaVinci Code and Angels and Demons. I felt the latter was better (although the ending was ridiculous), but overall they weren't bad reads. To put it a different way: neither of them resulted in a review like this.Ok, one last thing before I start spoiling things completely. If you're interested in an alternative Mason experience, I recommend either reading Umberto Eco's Foucault's Pendulum -- which, to be honest, is a tough book to read. The secret seems to be not trying to figure out everything that's going on; if it's important he'll come back to it -- or watching the delightful Nicolas Cage history/conspiracy romp National Treasure if you only have a couple hours.Ok, enough prattle. Spoilers ahead....There's a Bible buried in the cornerstone of the Washington Monument, and Robert Langdon needs to stop a madman from tattooing it to his head and uploading a video to YouTube!I'm not kidding. That's the first part of the book. And there was actually a moment where I was seriously contemplating giving the book 4 stars. Yes, it was almost an exact replica of the DaVinci Code. But it's better written and less didactic (until the the second part). You still have the same contrivances of style that make it deliberately confusing who is doing something because of course there has to be a "mole" character (although not as obnoxious this time). And frankly the factual information is interesting and not anti-Catholic like the other two books in the series. You can still foresee plot points relatively easily (I'll get to the important one in a second), and you're going to get the same group of individuals who think some of the fake stuff (essentially everything the female character has done as a "noetic scientist") is true because of the real stuff the book contains just like they thought the DaVinci Code was true. But I believe I would've given the book 3 stars if it had ended at the top floor of the masonic temple.Sadly, it didn't, and that's also where the wheels fall off.So I take you to the climax of the story, and the spoilers are really going to fly fast here. The madman has taken Peter Solomon (the head of the Masons, essentially) to the top of the temple -- and has revealed himself to be the son long thought dead! Of course, everyone probably figured this out about 200 pages earlier (sometimes the ambiguous writing of Brown is a giant flashing sign saying "Things aren't what they seem!"), but that's not a problem. And he wants to tattoo the "word" to his head, but his father gives him the wrong word (of course, since it's not a literal word, it's the aforementioned bible in the Washington Monument). And then his father refuses to kill his son (with the knife Abraham was going to use to kill Isaac!) to complete his mad dream of ascension into divinity, although we're not told if an angel tells him not to. But he gets killed anyway when the glass above the altar is shattered by a helicopter, a perfect symbol of the novel completely falling apart, because now things get weird.The son he thought dead is now dying on an altar, so what does the father say to him as he lies there? "I lied to you about the tattoo on your head. Oh and uh, yeah, I never stopped loving you." Seriously. It's like his body was possessed by Nelson (the bully, not the admiral) for a moment and he said "Ha Ha!".And then his son goes to hell. Seriously. There's a paragraph where we're in the mind of his son as he dies and I'm pretty damn certain what Brown was hinting at was Hell. (But hey, that's ok, the science of noetics has already "proven" in the book that the soul has weight. Seriously).Even though I was starting to cringe, I probably would've still given it a 3rd star (there's precedence: Angels and Demons got 3 stars from me even though I cringed through most of the end).But then Peter Solomon -- who, I might add, was just tortured, had his hand cut off, and watched his son who he thought was dead die -- decides that now is the perfect time to have an "argument" (from the Greek meaning "I meant you to say Arrgghh") with Robert Langdon as they go to the Washington Monument (the pyramid! the spiral staircase!). And Peter's argument is this: God is in us, we're all primed for enlightenment, the secret is in the bible (and other religious texts), we just can't read it correctly yet (look for sales of the Bible Code to spike).And here is where Dan Brown did what made me so angry. He made Langdon the unrepentant skeptic. This is a few hundred pages after Langdon (in a flashback) told his students to open their minds. Now this is typical Brown anyway: Langdon has been forced to hold the idiot stick many, many times in the three books simply for plot contrivances. At first I thought that's what he was doing here, and if he had let well enough alone I'd probably wouldn't be writing this.But the "argument" goes on for over 50 pages. In other words, Langdon isn't holding the idiot stick; Brown is putting the idiot stick inourhands and is beating us with it. It's not Langdon that Solomon is trying to convince. It's the reader that Brown is trying to convince. Why either Langdon or the reader should trust someone who believes that people thought the earth was flat in the middle ages is not answered.And here's the fun part: I actually agree with some of the philosophy that Brown is espousing here. But I strongly disagree with is manipulation. And there is no other word for what Brown is trying to do here. Langdon's skepticism takes a long time to be overcome, but in the end, it is overcome. Brown makes sure of that. By proxy, our own skepticism should be overcome -- we've been beaten with the idiot stick long enough we're screaming "Yes! Yes! I believe! Just end the book already!"It's crass, it's underhanded, and it's pathetic. It's not that I expected better from Dan Brown, it's that I didn't expect it at all. He knew he'd never have an opportunity to reach a larger audience, and unwilling or incapable of subtletly he wrote a book designed to hit you with made-up facts to support a made-up philosophy.I can not in good conscience recommend this book to anyone. If you've already read it, I'm sorry.PS: Besides, Lennon already told us the Word is "Love"