Overwhelmingly underwhelming1893 was a year to remember - the World's Fair came to Chicago and H. H. Holmes (one of America's most famous serial killers) took full advantage. He stalked the streets and murdered whomever he pleased.I really liked the idea of this one - to take one of America's greatest triumphs and splicing his story along with one of the greatest horrors. However. There's too high of a disconnect between these two sidesThis reads liketwo separate booksthrown together at inopportune moments - as soon one half got the least bit exciting, we'd swap. It wasfrustrating and ultimately exasperatingto read.The World Fair section was interesting in its own right, but itpaled so much in comparisonto the serial killer that it became something toslog through.For theWorld's Fair- we see the entirety of its creation and eventual destruction. Ample page space was given to dissecting every. single. mind-numbing. detail.Roughly half the book was wasted onpetty squabblesabout the building paint, boats in the harbor and the landscaping. (I finally understand how my mother can fall asleep while reading.)Then, once I nodded off between 2-3 times, we'd jump to the insane murderer. But, there was a huge disconnect regarding page space.The longer the book went on, the shorter those H. H. Holmes sections would be - towards the end, we'd only getwe'd get 1 to 10 pages from H. H. Holmes' perspectivefor every couple chapters of building plans. Fabulous.The two main stories weren't entirely separate - they did tangentially intersect - notably H. H. Holmes managed to lure so many people into his hotelbecauseof the fair and hedidtake one of his victims to the fair but those connections did not seem strong enough for a joint book.While I appreciate the time and effort it took to research such a complete account of 1893, I had a hard time enjoying the novel. It felt like more of a mess than anything.Popsugar 2018 Reading Challenge: A book you meant to read in 2017 but didn't get toBlog|Instagram|Twitter