DNF at 61%.I am sorry, I really am. I tried really hard to finish it and made an attempt to resume reading after a break. I understand the huge influence the novel had on science fiction practically creating cyberpunk genre and introducing several words now in mainstream use. I fully acknowledge it. Let me say what was wrong with it - in my opinion.If there was ever a victim of its own success, this book is it. It was so successful lots of people began developing the same theme and often much better. Take any kind of art and I can name better examples. Movies/cartoons: Ghost in the Shell (manga as well) and The Matrix. Video games: System Shock and its sequel; Deux Ex is supposed to be equally good, but I have not played it. Literature: Snow Crash - if you ignore its abysmal ending (or the total lack of thereof, to be exact). Dare I say, Ready Player One? This one is debatable.The ideas presented are not so groundbreaking anymore. At one point somebody smuggled super-duper implantable memory chips with mind-boggling capacity measured in megabytes. Change it into terabytes and I might stop laughing.What is left in a books when the ideas become old? Characters. The characters are absolutely positively flat; a piece of paper has more depth. I could not care less about any one of them. Regarding the heroine of the book I keep imagining the following dialog between William Gibson and myself in my head:W.G.:Hey look, there is this girl who is also a skilled assassin. How cool is that?Me:*Yawns* Sorry, I could not contain the excitement. For your information every other heroine of a modern YA novel is a skilled assassin.W.G.:She has special lenses implanted in place of her eyes!!!Me:You are not being too original. In the modern days it is called bug-eye sunglasses:W.G.:She has retractable blades under her nails!!! Yeah!!!Me:You mean, like Wolverine? So lame...I am also curious with the amount of drugs consumed, what is the average life expectancy in that world? Surely no more than 27.I also need to mention the writing style. You - as a writer - is trying to tell a story. If your style gets in the way of it, this is not called unique writing style; this is called mental masturbation. The way this story is told makes it confusing enough. The writing style makes it incomprehensible.I give one star to the books I DNF. This time the second star is due to the huge influence of the novel at the time it was published. I cannot give any more than that.