It's a good thing these teen vampire dramas take only a couple of hours to read. I've read the first four of this series and each one made me vomit in my mouth just a little more. Seriously. I know, you're asking why I have read 4 if the first one made me throw up even just a little. Well, it's a funny thing, I'd rather stick a book out on the off chance that the ending makes the whole thing worth it, than never know if the ending made the whole thing worth it. Now mind you, the ending-making-a-crappy-book-worth-it thing very rarely happens. I know it's happened to me before, but I just can't remember when. It's a good think I'm not in a terrible marriage, right, I'd be here till the end waiting to see if it got better.It's usually not such a bad thing -- I'm a fast reader. Even if the book produces much mouth vomit, I only have to spit and rinse for a few days. However, these series books, man alive, they're a bit of a problem. Thankfully, there's only one more book in the House of Night series, and I know the chances are slim that it's going to make make it all worth it, but I've gotta try.To be honest, it's not the storyline, or characters, that turn my stomach, it's the condescending tone and the judgemental stereotypes. It's like a PSA in Utah or the 1950s. I know your writing a teen book (mostly for girls) so you might think it's a good time to give a few lessons on how to be an upstanding, moral teen, but it's not -- your teenage vampire book is not the right platform to tell us only losers smoke pot or drink, druggies are losers (always), only desperate girls give blowjobs, girls that give blowjobs are being used, only a slut would kiss her boyfriend out in the open like that, goths smell bad and don't bathe enough. And if you can't help but pass on these nuggets of wisdom, don't hit us on the head with them, give us some layers, lady!Seriously, I'm not sure who reads and enjoys these books considering that the authors succeed in alienating every 'type' of teenager except the most middle-mundane-average-boring one, which might cover, like two actual kids in the world. Geez.Aside from all of that, well, I don't know, it was hard to get past all of that. I keep waiting for something to happen, maybe it's all about the denouncement?!