Has anyone else read this book and thought it sucked? I was very disappointed in it. I started off excited to read this book and that's where that enthusiasm left me.To start - Wow religious! There are some books that make me go - hmm you're religious - I get your sense of peace from it. Or I can also read it and go ok you are one of the crazy religious people that are scary. This book was just like STOP TALKING ABOUT RELIGION!!! No one practiced what was preached and so I don't really understand the necessity of it. And they did a lot of "praying".Now I'm not going to go into every detail, as this review would be incredibly long and no one would read it. However . . . .Nothing was resolved, nothing was solved, nothing remarkable happened, all in all, nothing! This girl randomly decides she can't marry her boyfriend because of her mother. Which - clearly this love/hate between mom and daughter is not something new. Way to be a bitch about it and just leave good man standing there. Nice. Very nice.Then she goes making demands on her mom. Who hasn't really been there throughout her life, who hasn't always been the nicest to her, and who has disowned her because of a dumb newspaper article. And the mom - for some random reason - was like here! have this book! but that's all I'm giving you! Good thing this won't help you in any sort of way!So then we get random stories of the mother and her depression and addiction, but still nothing is resolved. There is no epiphany in the mothers thoughts. No real regret shown to her daughter. And then it just abruptly ends with - in my opinion - many unanswered questions. And when her daughter does have more questions - it's not the mom who comes - it's her friends.And then randomly - the daughter just forgives her mom - decides to get married again - and life is wonderful. WHAT!? Where the hell did that come from!? And her mom was kinda a bitch towards her on the phone. Something along the lines of I'm not sure if I will welcome you to come home. But - alas - of course she does!What absolute garbage! I am so angry I wasted time on this book.Does anyone have a different opinion? I would love to be proven wrong?