"Words are wind," says George R. R. Martin (GRRM) no less than 13 times in the latest installment of hisA Song of Ice and Fireseries. In this incrediblywindytome there was very little advancement of the overall story and no resolution to any of the myriad plot threads. Instead, most of the book followed characters travelling, yet in its 1,000+ pages onlyonereaches his destination while the rest arestill travelling.Words are wind, and GRRM is a windbag. His predilection for overwriting is ridiculous; an editor wasdesperatelyneeded andsorelymissed. Had this book been properly edited, we might have been saved 129 appearances of GRRM's new favorite words: leal, niello, neeps, nightsoil, serjeant, jape, and nuncle. Or spared 151 repetitions of annoying phrases like:Where do whores go?You know nothing, Jon Snow.words are windit is knownmuch and morelittle and lessmust needsa man growna woman grown and flowerednipples on a breastplateReek, rhymes with...(he/she/name) was not wrongGRRM likes to flood the reader with lists. Lists of dishes served at every meal, the exact order people entered and left rooms, a list of over 40 heraldic shields thatused to hangin the Shieldhall of Castle Black:(view spoiler)[Hundreds of knights meant hundreds of shields. Hawks and eagles, dragons and griffins, suns and stags, wolves and wyverns, manticores, bulls, trees and flowers, harps, spears, crabs and krakens, red lions and golden lions and chequy lions, owls, lambs, maids and mermen, stallions, stars, buckets and buckles, flayed men and hanged men and burning men, axes, longswords, turtles, unicorns, bears, quills, spiders and snakes and scorpions, and a hundred other heraldic charges had adorned the Shieldhall walls, blazoned in more colors than any rainbow ever dreamed of.(hide spoiler)]I do not like lists, GRRM. I would not like them here or there. I would not like them anywhere. I do not like lists. I do not like them, GRRM.GRRM has become so well-known for killing off characters that he made a joke of it when he(view spoiler)[introduced a brand new POV character in the prologue, spent 33 pages (on my ereader) developing the character, then killed him off at the end of the prologue.(hide spoiler)]All of which was entirely pointless to the story.GRRM ruined two of my favorite characters. Tyrion has become a whiny obsessive with daddy issues. Danaerys went from a strong-willed, self-righteous, slaughtering conqueror to a helpless, love-torn, indecisive, ineffectual character from a Jane Austen novel. GRRM cannot seem to write a strong female character unless she's a warrior (Brienne, Ygritte, Arya). He's disturbingly focused on tits and cunny (his word).Robert Jordan'sCrossroads of Twilighthas often been called "Characters Show Up", which would be an equally appropriate title for GRRM'sA Dance with Dragons. I couldn't put it down,notbecause it was great, but becauseI couldn't wait to be done with it and move on to a better book. It's sad that's the best thing I can say about it.