Spoilers Included, so skip if you feel the need...So, it's like this. You like hotdogs. Hotdogs are your favorite food. And there's a jumbo hotdog coming out on the 12th, so yay. Come the twelfth, all you get is the bread, and they say, eat that, the sausage is coming. It's so meaty, you're already salivating, dribbling on yourself in public like a fool.Munch, munch, munch. But the bread is dry... Then you come upon a sausage factory. The Jumbo Sausage factory, and you get a grand tour, up and down every aisle, seeing the ins and out of sausage world, how they grind the meat, and all the health precautions and what-not.At the end of the tour, you get a frozen ketchup packet. Half the day is gone, and you've seen the jumbo sausage showcased in the window but all you get is dry bread and a ketchup pack that promises to melt in the next five to ten years.See how long-winded, pointless and totally irrelevant that was? It don't have nothing on ADWD.I used to like Tyrion, but he spent half the book rowing down a river, and the other half wiping a man's ass.Dany, reminds me of Brionny from Shadowmarch - clothes, food, suitors galore and loving servants willing to eat a sword for her. Dragons too, for about 50 pages, but mostly just food and tokars.Jon, hopefully dead. Yes, I said it. I used to like Jon, but he turned into a wilding-lover, an idiot, and a Stannis enthusiast. He knew nothing, Jon Snow.And those three make up 90% of the book.Theon was good, until the repetitive nature of his POV became boring.BTW, Aegon is still alive, which isn't really a shocker since the whole "There must be one more" vision, but we see him for all of five minutes. His bodyguard, the only truly interesting POV in the series gets two chapters. They are the only people who accomplish anything, and they do the majority off-page.One Jaime chapter, which was more pointless than Tyrion's stint as a pig-riding slave, if such a level of pointlessness is possible. The two Cersei chapters read nice, but are still pointless, (we've had enough introspection from her, right? Time for the trial/axman/exile).The whole thing is one massive filler that makes AFFC look like 5 star stuff.1000 pages plus? 90% based in Asia/Persia/Egypt/Greece/wherever the eff Meereen is supposed to be beside a cesspit. It's a literal cesspit... literally. That pale mare is going to leave its hoof prints on your soul. Raise your hand if you want the entire continent burnt to the ground! Who cares?I feel as if someone farted in my brain. And gave it the flux. Or if GRRM had the flux while he was writing this.Winds of winter though is poised to be beautiful, at least. Hopefully no more Wall, and no more Meereen, but I get a feeling we still have some "Selmy's Round Table Rule" to mock through.Victarion was in it, but he was on a boat too. Asha wasn't on a boat, but she was in the snow. Everybody was either in the snow, on a boat, or getting married and eating food. Even people get married in the snow.One star for Aegon, the next star for Bran and the Bloodraven cameo. A thousand eyes and one... That was nice.Imagine a morbidly obese Brad Pitt. (Upwards of 600lbs.) That's what ASOIAF is right now.It'll take one hell of a fix up to return it to its former glory. TWOWshouldbe good, but then ADDW was supposed to be good too, right? Am I holding my breath?