I have to say I became addicted to these books when I started them (and I had nothing to do over the past few days,) but now they're really starting to irritate me. I have started the fourth book but put it down because I can't just stand the horrid writing anymore. The author is extremely repetitive, starting with her introduction to the books. She thinks random people would start reading at the 3rd book without reading the previous ones, and in the process of her 'introductions' she pisses her actual readers off. I feel like throwing up, (seriously) every time I read the Twins talking. It's like this author is starved of ideas for their dialogue. They, Damien, Jack, Zoey have all failed to develop in the slightest. Their banter is really getting on my nerves.I've read other reviews on this site and many are saying the same thing. Why not try some different dialogue for a change? Recognize that your readers, since they've been reading a book with the 'F' word in it and sexual content, they aren't little children who can't take big vocabulary words and who have to have repetition thrown at them, as well as stupid pop culture references every few seconds.Zoey, the main character, could use a bit of maturing. It doesn't help that the first three books progress over the time span of only a few months and she is still a freshman (third year former) in her school. Since she has such wonderful powers you would think she would learn a bit of responsibility and sense. As for her three boyfriends, you would think she would have a bit of sense and compassion to not cheat around. But noo, hormones took over. This did add some much needed conflict to the story, but the whole concept was just 'ugh' since she was fooling around with three guys at once. (great message for little girls there!)The characters I have to compliment are Stevie Rae, Aphrodite, and Neferet.They have developed and Stevie Rae's change into an undead creature was interesting, as well as Aphrodite's character development.A good thing about this series (possibly the only reason I kept on reading) is the action. It happens too fast in places, but the whole concept of the Priestess, blood drinking/imprinting, etc is very good. I also enjoyed many of the action scenes, but as the books went on they became less and less. It's a shame the good in this book is overridden by the bad writing and characterization as well as the author's laziness in thinking up new plots and character development. I'll keep on reading them, but I won't stop wishing that there was an improvement.