The first two books in this series were pretty good. Definitely not phenomenal, but a good guilty pleasure series, like cotton candy in the world of literature. But Chosen was just too much. It starts off a month after Betrayed left off. Zooey is juggling three boyfriends, trying to keep the fact that Stevie Rae is a monster a secret, and struggling with the fact that her former mentor, Neferet, is an evil vampyre creating an undead army.First off, the thing that bothered me most about the book was the racism. P.C. and Kristin Cast are always writing about characters' skin color, but ONLY WHEN THEY'RE BLACK. If a character is black the authors always mention it in great detail, but if the character is white or anything else, they leave discussions of their ethnicity alone. The most offensive and racist part of the book was when Zooey was (innappropriately) grinding one of her boyfriends, Heath, in public. The line, "two black guys were just a few feet away... wearing the stereotypical ridiculous sagging pants," was used. This line pretty much sums the scene up. The authors stereotype black people, making these black guys vulgar, wannabe hoods. And then Zooey kills these guys for talking trash to her, and nothing much is made of it later on in the book. It's as if the authors are saying it is somehow okay to murder blacks, and that if you do there won't be any consequences. This made me really mad. Revealing the race of two characters who were only in the story for two pages was completely unnecessary. The scene could have worked regardless of the two guys' ethnicity, and the Casts identifying the two men as black sent a loud and clear message: black peoples' lives are meaningless.The character Zooey is a horrible role model. She and her friends constantly bully a girl on campus, their only reason being they deem her a slut. The girl, Aphrodite's, only crime was sleeping with a boy she'd been in a long-time relationship with! Then Zooey turns around, has three boyfriends, lies to all of them, and sleeps with a teacher. The fact that Zooey, the main character and supposed heroine of this series, sleeps with a teacher is disgusting beyond words. It shows her complete lack of good judgement and her willingness to betray her perfectly nice, loyal boyfriend Erik. I hate how Zooey manipulates the boys in her life and has no regard for anyone's feelings but her own. She lies to all her friends throughout the book and tries to have three boyfriends at once instead of doing the responsible thing and breaking up with two of them.Besides the fact that the main character is an obnoxious slut and the book is blatantly racist, the story just suffers from poor writing. The authors waste a lot of time giving us long summaries about what happened in the previous books, and sometimes review things that just happened a few chapters ago! There were also a lot of little typos throughout the book, which detracted from the story becuase it was like they were in such a rush to get the book published they didn't leave time for editing. Most of the characters are not fully drawn, and all Zooey's friends are stereotypes. There's Erin and Shaunee, two loud-mouthed girls who are tough as hell, but love to shop for shoes! There's Damien, who is the smart gay guy who holds them all together. In truth, the only thing this book had going for it was the suspense. Every chapter ended in a cliffhanger and the storyline of teachers at the House of Night showing up murdered compelled me to read on. But not even mediocre plotting can save a sinking ship. To conclude: don't waste your money buying this. Don't waste your time reading it.