"You're not like anyone else," I whispered to my reflection. Then I cleared my throat and continued in an overly perky voice. "And it's okay not to be like anyone else." I rolled my eyes at myself. "Whatever."When I first started on the House of Night series back in January, I was warned by a friend that, while the first two books were indeed terrible, they hadnothingon the third,Chosen. So, after readingMarkedandBetrayed, I couldn't possibly believe my friend's words. How could it getworse?Now that I have finished, I can safely say that my friend was not lying.Chosenreally is worse than the first two bookscombined.The book picks up shortly after whereBetrayedleft off. Nothing has really happened in the series except for Zoey-suebecoming MOAR SPESHUL with each passing volume, and the reveal of what I assume is the big-bad, Neferet, who was originally portrayed in the first book to be Zoey's cool vampyre mentor. This book focused mainly on three things; Zoey's friend 'Stevie-Rae' beingnot-quite-dead(which we already knew at the end of the last book), the beginnings of some sort of semi-religious conflict between vampyres and humans, and Zoey's tumultuous love-life. Love-triangles? Not good enough for our Zoey! We need a love-square!Usually, I'd be all for this; I love reverse-harems. I'm writing my own young adult novel with a reverse-harem. The more guys the merrier! But I absolutelyhatedZoey's love issues. Why? Because Ihated Zoey.For me to enjoy a YA romance, I have to like the characters involved. I can disagree with them, but I have tolikethem. I can't throw myself into supporting a relationship between two characters I just don't give a flying fuck about. This is the reason I can't enjoy the relationship drama Zoey has with Erik/Heath/Loren. I hate Zoey, I don't care about Erik, Heath annoys me, and Loren downrighthorrifies me.Right from the start, Zoey proves that she hasn't change from the insufferable, hateful person she was in the last few books. Her birthday is coming up, and since it's on the 24th of December it's common for people to get her 'Christmas' themed presents. She calls it 'birthmas' gifts, and she hates it. Naturally, she didn't tell her friends this, and they all think getting her Christmas-themed gifts would be a cute idea. Zoey bitches about it internally but says nothing. Then they find out she hates Christmas gifts, and are appalled and saddened. She whines that it's not her fault, because she told one of her friends- but that friend is dead so, oops, not her fault.That is how the book begins.Zoey spends most of this book moaning about how awful her life is because she has three boyfriends and doesn't know what to do about them. She knows what she is doing is wrong, but she keeps on doing it anyway. We're constantly reminded by how guilty she feels, but the guilt never seems real because she doesn'tdoanything with it. At one point she's going to go break up with Heath, her human ex-boyfriend with whom she shares an Imprint, but instead of breaking up, he slits his arm open (AGAIN. HE DID THIS IN THE LAST BOOK AS WELL.) and they dry hump on the street. This leads to two "unsavory" characters coming up and sexually harassing them. Zoey promptlykills them.Did I mention the two "unsavory" characters in question wereblack menportrayed as stereotypical gangsters? And that Zoey barely gives half a shit aboutmurdering them?Now, the past few books have been racist as well, but this just threw me. How could anyone read this before publishing and think it was okay? Not to mention that the book still reminds us every time Shaunee shows up that she is black, or, "caramel" or "mocha-latte" or any other synonym. She is the only character who is repeatedly described other than the males in Zoey's harem, and those descriptions are clearly meant to be for the reader's benefit.A similar thing continues on for Damien and his boyfriend Jack Twist. We as the reader are constantly reminded that they are homosexual. And believe me, the jokes justflyin every direction. It's meant to be seen as friendly banter, but it just reminds me of bullying. There's this exchange that is so stiff and unnatural that I just have to quote it again;"I sighed again. "You gays are freakishly intuitive.""That's us: homos- the few, the proud, the hypersensitive.""Isn't homo a derogatory term?""Not if it's used by a homo."This wasfive pagesinto the book. General online consensus says that 'homo' isn't a friendly term of endearment. It's not the homosexual equivalent of the N-word. All this exchange did was help reinforce the fact that Zoey's friend Damien is gay. He's gay. Did you know that? He's homosexual. He likes the D. He is a homosexual boy. Gay. Gay. Gaygaygay.Gay.STOP IT. THIS IS NOT HOW YOU WRITE AN INCLUSIVE CHARACTER. This is just reinforcing horrible old stereotypes that need to stop being pushed around. I don't even want to get started on Jack Twist, who is named after Brokeback Mountain and seems to have only hooked up with Damien because they're the only two homosexual males in the story and, because of their proximity, obviously must get together. Sigh.A large chunk of the book focuses on Zoey attempted to "fix" Stevie-Rae, who had become some kind of undead vampyre during the last book. Fixing Stevie-Rae involves hiding her in Aphrodite's house- who has now become a frenemy of Zoey's- and then doing yet another element circle at the end of the book whichfixes everything. The entire plot-line was bullshit and really just felt like filler to me where it should've felt central.Instead, all the focus was on Zoey and her love life. She has several make-out sessions with a professor, Loren Blake; one make-out/groping session with her vampyre boyfriend, Erik; and a hot and heavyhumpingandblood-suckingsesh with her Imprinted human ex-boyfriend, Heath. In between these, she feels immensely guilty and calls herself a 'ho' multiple times. Then, near the end of the book, she has sex with the professor- thereby destroying the Imprint she has with Heath- and is caught by Erik.Erik, rightfully upset, calls her a slut. Zoey, upset, insists she isn't. Erik is then painted to be an asshole for wanting to hurt Zoey after she hurt him, and it's clearly expected that as the reader we are meant to sympathise with poor Zoey, because it turns out creepy teach' Loren was actually a spy of Neferet's who only wanted to bang Zoey in order to get information out of her. Or maybe he really did like her, but what does it matterhe's dead now. Yeah. Seriously. He getskilled. So, the whole book focuses on boyfriend drama, and it ends with Zoey having zero boyfriends. The only reason I found this satisfying is because Ihate Zoey.The book ends with Neferet declaring that vampyres will declare war on humans or something, and then Zoey telling Neferet that she's evil. Then she hugs her cat and says something about how things are only going to get harder from then on out. It was possibly the most ham-fisted ending I've ever read. It's like there was meant to be a cliff-hanger, but there's just a blank kind of void instead.I'm hoping that this is the worst book of the series. You know why? Because maybe it gets better. Maybe, somewhere along the line, I'll be able to give a House of Night booktwo stars. Because so far, I'd be giving them zero if only Goodreads would let me.Ruin, I'm doing this, baby. I'm going to do it. I'm going to read this whole series. Pray for my safe return.