I don't even know where to begin. Every bit of redemption that Zoey and the authors earned in the last book is gone. And this has nothing to do with(view spoiler)[Zoey having sex with her teacher(hide spoiler)]. Let's see.The book opens with Zoey's friends throwing a small 17th birthday celebration for her. Zoey's birthday is December 24th and she hates that people always try to "mush" her birthday together with Christmas. So when she opens her presents and sees that she gets a (expensive) scarf, a (expensive) pair of boots, and a (expensive) pearl necklace, she's deeply upset because they all have a snowman or Christmas tree on them. I get it, but you didn'ttellthem, sohowdid you expect them toknow. Well when Zoey's friends and boyfriend see a letter from Heath, her ex/not ex, explaining that he knows she hates Christmas themed presents, they all become upset. But wait, it's still all their fault because Zoey did tell someone, she told Stevie-Rae, who is unfortunately no longer with us. WOW. Way to be a spoiled brat and then throw up someone's death in everyone's face, before storming out of YOUR birthday party. Don't let the door hit you on the way out, bitch.Zoey's man drama is still in full swing."I was crazy about Heath. And his blood.Erik was an amazing guy who I really, really liked.Loren was completely delicious.Jeesh, I sucked."Yes, you do suck, but not because of that. Unfortunately, one of Zoey's love interests doesn't make it out of this book alive.(view spoiler)[RIP Loren, you were a piece of shit but that was terrible.(hide spoiler)]And one of them breaks up with her after catching her in a compromising position.(view spoiler)[Bye Erik, I never liked you anyways.(hide spoiler)]But to be quite honest, Zoey's man drama is my favorite thing about her. It's juicy and scandalous, and I don't blame her for getting wrapped up. What I do blame her for, is being a moron."I hated it when kids got all nervous and scared around me like they think I might turn them into something vile. Please. It's the House of Night, not Hogwarts. (Yes, I read the Potter books and love the movies. Yes, that's more proof of my geekness.)"Why do the authors constantly point out that people who like Harry Potter, Star Wars, Star Trek, or Lord of the Rings are "dorks" or "geeks". Millions and billions of people love these franchises, it's not weird or stupid. Shut the hell up about it already.Now let me get to the worst part of the entire book. Zoey gets caught grinding on Heath by two men on the street."Two black guys were just a few feet away and getting closer to us. They were wearing the stereotypical ridiculous sagging pants and stupid, oversized down coats and when I bared my teeth at them and hissed, their expressions changed from sneers to shocked disbelief."Zoey then(view spoiler)[knocks the men into the street and they get hit by a truck.(hide spoiler)]I'm not shocked because ignorant comments have already been made about POC and homosexuality. But I have three words to say: BLACK LIVES MATTER. Unfortunately, they don't matter that much to Zoey because even though she's shocked and upset at herself, she keeps it moving."I just sucked Heath's blood and got interrupted by some gang wannabes who I think I might have kinda sorta accidentally killed, and Loren Blake and I have been making out. So, how was your day?" ..."You've been making out with Loren Blake?" As usual, Stevie Rae got to the heart of the juiciest gossip."You mean.... the men you may have KILLED isn't the juiciest gossip?????I'm going to end this review on a positive note and say my 2 favorite things about the book. The first being Aphrodite:"And there's nothing wrong with being a virgin. It's better than being a skank."Aphrodite was still laughing. "You have a lot to learn, Z."Don't worry, she learns it.And the second being(view spoiler)[Stevie-Rae turning into some sort of new Vampyre."The crescent moon that rested in the middle of her forehead had been filled in. A beautiful pattern of tattoos made of swirling flowers with long, graceful stems all twined together framed her eyes and stretched down her cheekbones. But the tattoos weren't vampyre sapphire. They were the brilliant scarlet of new blood."Very cool and I'm very happy to have her back.(hide spoiler)]I hate to give such a bad review but this book really bothered me. It's sad, because I genuinely want to keep reading the books.