I just can't comprehend why so many people are rating this book 5 stars. Seriously, why? I understand we are in love with Twilight, but it's not a good enough reason to support this mediocrity.I was extremely disappointed by Breaking Dawn, but decided not to be a hater and give SM another chance. So I opened The Host. I have to say, I have never had to put this much effort into reading a book in my life. If I didn't know who SM was, I wouldn't even bother to read after page 10, it was that boring and uninspired. But because of SM, I continued on, especially after some people told me that it would get better after about 250 pages. Oh boy, were they wrong! I was more like 500 pages. It took me 3 days to get through first 100 pages (to compare, it took me probably about 3 days to read Twilight, New Moon, and Eclipse). After that I just skipped through the rest of the book within a couple of hours. You can literally read every 50th page and not miss anything! There is absolutely nothing going on in this book! Pages and pages of conversations between Wanda and Melanie. And both these characters are so undeveloped, it's hard to tell them apart. In fact, it's hard to get attached to any character in this book! They all are so flat and dull.This book is marketed as sci-fi/romance novel. Trust me, it is neither. The sci-fi backdrop of this novel is laughable. Altruistic "souls" that save planets from cruel species, among these "cruel species," believe it or not, are: Flowers, See Weeds, Bats... It is just plain ridiculous!There is very little romance in the book either. A couple of kisses between underage girls and older guys is all you get, in spite of the fact that this is SM's "first adult novel." "Adult" conversation goes as far as discussing that a couple of characters can't have sex because she is too young (of course!) and they don't have contraceptives. Give me a break!So many reviewers say that this book has a deep meaning, that it shows "what it means to be human" and demonstrates that we can "extend the status of "human" to other entities," etc. I think these people have never read actually good books. In fact, I don't think they have ever read anything but Twilight before.This is definitely the end of my love affair with SM's writing. I think she struck gold with Twilight, the rest of her creations are just plain bad. You may disagree with me, but this is the reality.