At long last, my love affair with these crazy Scottish novels and their hunky hero (and sassy heroine) has come to a squeaking, grinding halt. I tried to ignore the unusually frenetic pace, but when the plot began frantically bouncing from one eyebrow-raising, skepticism-inducing mishap to the next - well, let me enumerate:(1) Jamie survives the slaughter of Culloden (well, of course he did! He's the strongest, burliest, cleverest Scot in Scotland!) (2) Claire survives her third, apparently death-defying trip, through the stones (okay, she's tough too, I'll go along with that), then (3) finds Jamie, witnesses a murder, hangs out in a brothel, loses a nephew, gets caught in a fire (Jamie miraculously survives breaking glass and crumbling stairs), saves the nephew (who set the fire and killed suspicious seaman IN said fire) then (4) finds out Jamie's been married (to the erstwhile Laoghaire of novel #1 who is, yes! the very selfsame who tried to kill Claire, (5) they are ambushed while smuggling liquor into Scotland (you thought Jamie was a convicted Jacobite sympathizer? Well, yes, but he's also now a liquor smuggler AND a printer well-known for publishing "seditious" material), (6) we witness a gruesome hanging, (7) all flee to France, (8) ah, wait - lose above-mentioned nephew AGAIN (who had been sent to recover treasure guarded by seals),(9) are in pursuit of nephew's kidnappers, taking them to the Caribbean islands...but wait! (10)Claire is needed aboard a British man-of-war to single-handedly stop an epidemic of typhoid fever (and she'd better do it or all of the able-bodied men will be pressed into the British navy, and Jamie will be hanged!),(11) she meets the new Governor of Jamaica (who happens to be the same John Grey who we met in novel #2! And is also the selfsame John Grey who was the Governor of Ardsmuir, where Jamie was held prisoner, and hold up! ALSO, the same guy who turns out to be homosexual AND is also in love with Jamie! (He IS the hunkiest Scot in Scotland, after all).This is also the same man who happens to be stepfather to (12) Jamie's son (Oh, did I mention? Jamie had impregnated a bratty 17-year old girl - because yeah, that's in character. Don't worry, this is all before Claire steps through the stones again, and he was under threat of blackmail, so his honor remains intact).(13) Claire jumps ship and surprise! survives swirling currents, a tropical storm, and ends up on Haiti, where (14) she happens to run into her previous ship and crew, and where (15) Jamie happens to also jump ship (after a failed attempt to rescue Claire from the man-of-war), and becomes captain of a group of French soldiers within several hours (huh??) followed by (16) a run-in with a notorious serial killer, (17) a meeting with the infamous Geillis Duncan (who just won't die!!) (18) several more murders, (19) a party at the Governor's house (John Grey gets to look longingly at Jamie a few times, and remember their brief kiss...a likely scene, since Jamie was tortured by a sadistic homosexual in novel #1), (20) a slave market, (21) a Chinese man,(22) a wedding, some more steamy scenes, followed by a (23) Caribbean seance and slave uprising, (24) recovery of the kidnapped nephew, (25) imminent capture by the British, (26) a close chase by the man-of-war (the same previously afflicted by typhoid fever)(27) another ridiculously big storm [oh, there were some pirates in there somewhere where Claire is struck by a cutlass (don't worry, she thought to bring penicillin with her this time. That, and a peanut butter sandwich. I'm not kidding. Definitely would be my two top choices if I were traveling through time)].(28) Claire is struck by a falling mast (don't worry, Jamie is superhuman and saves her) and lastly, (29) the resolution of the ridiculously huge storm and the novel, which has blown them and their tiny boat to....America!Hey, I know all about willing suspension of disbelief, but this was a bit much. Good-bye Outlander, and your ridiculous plot points, crammed cheek-by-jowl. We had a good run while it lasted.