TWO RANTS FOR THE PRICE OF ONENow, here's the thing about this author :With friends like Richard Dawkins, who needs enemies?Okay, i said it. Whew, I feel better. He's just so annoying, even when you agree with him. Grr.Okay, well, so, some time ago I watched Richard's two documentaries "The Enemies of Reason" and "The Root of all Evil" so I should get round to this book at some point, but really, it's so hard to make any kind of sense of this debate.Right now, I kind of know what the Bible means when it says in PsalmsThe fool hath said in his heart that there is no GodIt's because of the giant ineluctible fact that there IS an IS - that things exist rather than not exist. I am here rather than not here. And so are you! Deny that if you can!That's a rather large elephant in the room of all atheists. Try and shove that one out of the door. Existence rather than non-existence. let, indeed, there be light.The God delusionals will say ah, you see, this guy PB, he's one of us now. (Some of them might then be saying "But that's not a good thing, though, is it?").Now, excuse me, i have to take a phone call.Pardon me...Oh, it was a scientist saying that what with the Bean Bag Collider they now have in Switzerland and their up to the minute research into the first part of the first part of the millionth subdivision of the first nanosecond after the Big Bang, they are in the happy position of being able to confirm that within two shakes of a lamb's tail (that's a scientific term) they will KNOW how the whole thing went down.They saw - with their own eyes - the Hugo Boss particle the other day. So now they know.Great.I told her, keep up the good work. I want to know how it happens that we're all here and not not here.But when the scientists do explain how everything began, it's going to be just as mystical for your average punter as Genesis chapter 1 verses 1-18. But Genesis will win out on poetry. And because of Peter Gabriel.So we'll be none the wiser. Except some clever-clogs 15 year old somewhere who reads it all in Nature or New International Geekery and saysoh, is that all it takes to create a universe?And he'll make another one right there in his bathtub.*****THE PREVIOUS RANTHere are a few things I want to know now :- The fundamentalists reject evolution and therefore geology too. How much more do they reject - physics? Chemistry? Botany? Medicine? Or is science perfectly okay until it mentions anything in the Bible? Where is the examination of scientific evidence leading to its rebuttal and rejection by the fundies? You know, like they used to believe the fossils were put there by God to test the faith of Christians... I mean, I guess they must also reject astronomy, with its concepts of light years and galaxies and what-all, because it's obvious that if you have a galaxy that's over 7000 light years away the universe is older than 6000 years. Doh! So that has to go. One of the stupidities of this God debate is that the debaters mostly screech slogans at each other. Sometimes the slogans go on for 300 pages! How can we get past the slogans?- One of RD's arguments in favour of science is its undogmatic provisional quality - it proceeds on the basis of evidence and its theories are promptly tossed into the dustbin if better evidence is discovered. And this is good. But alas it does not therefore follow, as RD thinks it does, that ordinary people can say to themselves well, I'm therefore just going to accept things which can be proved, not blind faith. Does RD think we should all troop off to the laboratories and observe the truth of all scientific discoveries for ourselves? No, surely not. We would not be let in. Therefore we're back to faith. I have faith in the teachers in schools and professors in universities - and you may have faith in priests, imams and rabbis. And furthermore, the religious may well retort rudely to Richard "Hey, Dawk, why should be believe in any of your shit if as you say your theories may be upturned, reversed and rescinded six months from now when better evidence is discovered under your Grandma's sofa? I mean, maybe GOD is underneath your Grandma's sofa - have you checked lately? Dude, you are asking the absurd." So how do we get past these inanities?