Update: I am at last finished (after a year of not really steady reading). Now I just have to start memorizing. . .The result of reading the full Emily is only greater curiosity. Now I want to see the poems as she arranged them, in their packets. The chron. arrangement pokes at a biographical revelation that ultimately seems beside the point. . . I'd rather just take her inner world as its own end. On the other hand, I've also started an edition of her letters. --She is fascinating. I'm wondering now how to present her work to students so they can see more than the sometimes-obvious surface.*Update: I've gotten now to the older ED. At this point, she's dryer, less intense. Two-word abstractions fill entire lines. You get the sense of a life lived among a paucity of objects, in which each object gradually assumes nearly allegorical significance.I'm also thinking that ED is a fantasist. She writes something that she wants to read in order to stoke a certain fantasy of hers--a fantasy of unique suffering, of delayed reward. It isn't a fantasy that appeals to me (putting anything off is a bad bet). But that doesn't mean I think it makes for bad poetry.**I feel a bit stupid for not having read this before (and I still haven't gotten over reading Plath so late)--but, on the other hand, I think Dickinson could have been a powerfully bad influence if I'd read her earlier (Plath too). As it is I get her rhythms (quietly didactic, like a girl teaching mice) thumping through my head whenever I put the book aside. . .--I hate to add this, because I know I'll be reading it for, oh, the next six months, and then for the ten years after that, but I need to assert that I am still intellectually active, despite being drowned in freshman comp. Anyway--reading the complete is quite different than reading poems here and there. You get more of a sense of her world--which oscillates between having a paucity of objects and being (she protests) plenty rich enough. You also get her conflation of various male figures (god, a lover) into some many-faced male Outside. In general the poetry just seems deeper. So I must highly recommend reading the complete ED over any selection.