In order not to step on anyone's toes or hurt anyone's feelings I won't rate Bared to You. DNF when I hit the 50 % mark.As far as I can judge,Bared to Youis a sensitive topic because it's already related toFifty.Frankly, it's not my intention to start a turmoil by writing a negative review. When I'm reviewing a book I want to be able to write about my feelings. I want to be honest, and a review should always reflect my emotions why I didn't like a book. Naturally it's the same the other way round. With that said, I'm trying to write my reviews in an open and respectable manner. I know this is not always possible--sometimes we get out of line. We all know that tastes and opinions tend to differ. And that's all right--that's the beauty of books.Bared to Youdid not work at all for me for numerous reasons. My rating would have been very low and I'll be honest when I'm gonna say that my review would have been the opposite of flattering. Even though I'm happy for those readers who loved the book, I demand that you respect my point of view as well when I say this was a bad book for me. Needless to say that I don't get the hype. Funny thing is while readingBared to YouI never got theFiftyvibes.Bared to Youis a different book but I didn't like it all the same. Personally, I think the book benefits in a major way of the fact that many readers have rec'd it toFiftydevotees. Again, it's all right and it's nothing that will compromise my reading life in a severe way. Anyone who is seriously interested to know why the story didn't work for me may send me a message, and I will outline my issues.Kristen Ashley has written something very beautiful. I borrowed it from her bookGolden Trail:"See, that's the beauty of books. We get to take what we want out of them and it can be different for everyone. You get a good one, you may even find what you need."Unfortunately it was not a good one and I couldn't find what I needed. Anyway, I'm off to the next one.Bared to You was kindly provided by NetGalley.com in behalf of Sylvia Day (publisher &amp; author)