UPDATE II. I'm deducting the star I added for the erotic encounter that I mistakenly thought was original because I've just read the scene in Fifty Shades Darker that, um, "inspired" Ms Day the copycat. Shame.UPDATE. Now that I have read Fifty Shades of Grey I'm even more unimpressed with Sylvia Day's book. Can you say "BIG ASS COPYCAT?" Sheesh.Touted as the 50SOG for the more discriminating romance reader, I say...Ms Day probably shouldn't believe her own PR. Eva and Gideon are the glitterati of Manhattan, impossibly wealthy and beautiful. Sadly, they fight and have jealous snits, generally behaving like high schoolers in a tediously predictable pattern. The make up sex is frequent and over the top. Their love is the greatest most neediest emo love ever, so special that Gideon can't even say "I love you" because it's just not enough to convey the depth of his all-consuming passion. Greatest most specialist love evah. *jaw-cracking yawn* If either one of them had even the tiniest sense of humor they'd be laughing at their own melodrama. But no.... both are too damaged by their pasts. Do I think the author used childhood sexual abuse as a cheap shortcut to make her characters more sympathetic? Why yes, yes I do.I'm tempted to give one additional star for chapter 16 in which they briefly behave and converse like adults but in the next chapter those darn kids go back to breaking up and making up. Chapter 16 also boasts the only truly inventive and original erotic encounter in the book. Very hot and imaginative so I tacked on the extra star for a sex scene I won't soon forget.I haven't read 50 and don't plan to. I have read enough to know that this book is a blatant knockoff. I can't imagine this book setting the world on fire the way a book written by an outsider to the world of NY publishing has. Day is an insider in the NY agent/publisher sameness mold. I wish they'd all move outside the box and dare to be different. It would be more productive than making fun of that Brit who did set the world on fire.