I'm.......Conflicted.I've been pondering for far too long regarding this book and how I feel about it. In the beginning, I dug it. I mean, I dug it! Right? I did. I mean, yeah, the writing is shallow and quick, the characters are just shoved in your face and then taken away at the author's whim, but the dialogue and action are engaging, and it keeps you reading. That's good, right? Turns out, not always. Like road trips. They're awesome until someone blindfolds you and directs you right off a cliff.That's what I feel like this author did to me; gleefully drove me over a cliff. And I'm dead, right? I'm lying on the ground, my body is broken, my life force (soul, cosmic parasite, whatever you want to call it) has left my earthly vessel, but my conscious self is still functioning and I'm pondering how to react to this turn of events.What's most startling is that, up until about 3/4 of the way in, I had planned on giving this book three or four stars. The ending...that was the cliff. I guess I should explain.Oh yes, there will be spoilers.Now if you've read the synopsis, you know this is the story of Cat, a half human/half vampire outcast with an emotionally distant, prejudiced mother, no friends, and a hate hard-on for all vampires since her biological father was one...and raped her mom. OK, admittedly it started off on shaky ground, but the humor was good enough to force my hand into giving it a pass. Eventually Cat meets Bones, a bounty-hunting (hitman) vampire who nearly kills her, and the two of them team up to take down "bad" vamps. See, Cat is convincedallvampires are bad, but Bones helps show her the light. 'Cause he's all chivalrous and moral and shit. I dig Bones as a character (aside from his ludicrous, giggle-inducing nickname) because he's a vamp who isn't cartoonishly villainous, but neither is he the self-loathing emo type likeEdwardsome other literary vampires. Basically, think of Spike in the 6th and 7th seasons ofBuffy the Vampire Slayer. And Cat is what would happen if you took Buffy, Faith, and Sooki Stackhouse and smooshed 'em together. So we have our premise and we have our characters, and we're ready to move on.Good sexual tension? - check.Zany, vampire-killing adventures? - check.A crime syndicate with one or two "big bads" to take out? - check.Good banter between hero and heroine? - check.An awesome bloodbath at the end? - checkA heroine who can take care of herself? - check.Sounds like this book has it all, right? Well, it does. Including a propensity for the heroine to occasionally act like acomplete and total idiot!Why does thisalwayshappen to me? Why? Why can't Ieverread about a female protagonist who is kick-ass andconsistentlysmart? No, what always happens is that they're either chronically stupid the entire time or they show promise only to fall apart at the weirdest times. In the case of Cat, her great moment of Derp arrives towards the end. She'd acted dumb on occasion before then, but the one that really floored me was at the end. After taking out the big crime syndicate, Cat and Bones are separated and she ends up in the hospital, recovering. A couple of FBI guys show up (think MIB meets X-Files) and manipulate her into working for the government. They use her mom and Bones as leverage to get her to agree to this, and she understandably doesn't trust them and is pretty pissed off, but she feels she can do nothing but agree. Let's forget for a moment that I would never in a million years take that deal (seriously, if my mom were a prejudiced bitch like hers, I'd dump her ass somewhere and never look back), the important thing is that Cat thinks it's the only way to keep her mother and Bones safe, so she agrees. Never mind the fact that making those kinds of decisions for other people is supremely arrogant and self-centered....I'm getting off-track. Anyway, the reader has had it drilled into his/her head from thebeginningof this story that Cat doesn't trust easily. She doesn't even seem to trust her mother. Keep that in mind. When Bones first started training Cat, he let her in on all sorts of vampire secrets, including the fact that vampire blood heals. So at the end, Cat is still all hopped-up on Bones' blood, she knows these secrets, she's cavorting with bureau men she doesn't trust (both of whom are as prejudiced against vampires as her mother and want them all dead), and what does she do?She tells them that vampire blood heals.It was at that moment that I pinched the bridge of my nose and was likeHmmmm...I can't think ofanything badthe bureau couldpossiblydo with that information....can you?Now I think I have to keep reading because if there isn't a scene in any of the later books where Cat stumbles upon the FBI's secret vampire milking room, I might die of shock.