I am so so so very disappointed....... in myself! I promised that I wasn't going to read any more of this series. I swore to myself that I was through, but then, there it was on the library shelf, taunting me with it's dark cover promising drama and romance. And against my better judgement,I broke the promise and let the eye-rolling and suffering begin. I have no one to blame but me.So, here we again have Nora who in this book becomes the definition of too stupid to live and I don't say that lightly. She wakes up with total amnesia of the past five months, eleven weeks of which she's been missing. Ooh, what happened to Nora? Honestly, who cares because let me remind you, she is truly too stupid to live.The first night home fter being released from the hospital, she sneaks out and returns to the cemetery where she awakened because ... I have no idea why. My best guess is that she enjoys a sliver of fear slithering down her spine or some such drama. She tells herself that it's to search for clues or jog her memory. Uh-huh. Does she find out anything? Nope.Now, I don't know about you, but if I've just been released or escaped an abduction in which who-knows-who did who-knows-what to me, I'mnotimmediately or anytime in the foreseeable future going to go prowling around by myself in the dark. I'm going to hide and hope that whoever took me doesn't find me. In other words I'm going to hide under my bed with the door locked and the curtains closed hoping with everything I have that the abductor will not come after me.There's a lot more like this. Nora trying to figure out what happened, not trying at all to keep herself safe, trying to foil what she assumes is a robbery that she happens upon, being rescued by the broodingly handsome Jev/Patch whom she doesn't remember, but has these flashes of black that she enjoys. Don't ask.Then she meets Scott whom she just trusts completely even though he followed her to a isolated beach where she's completely alone because he tells her that he knows her. Oh, I see, well, that makes perfect sense. She has no idea if he is good or bad but since she supposedly,according to Scott, knows him and he's all muscley and hot, it's all okey-dokey. Scott has been hiding but they make plans for him to take Nora to the homecoming dance where she's been nominated by Marcie, her long-time nemesis, for being an attendent. This is totally unimportant, useless information but I thought I'd include this anyway, much like Fitzpatrick does, here it is.And here's the thing about this whole dance thing. Scott is trying to hide or so he says and who does that? If I'm hiding, I'm not going to some dance nor am I playing a gig in a club. I'm going to be under my bed with the door locked and the curtains closed. I'm going to do everything I can so that no one will find me. Otherwise I'm a pretty bad hider. Guess playing hide and seek with Scott would have been a cakewalk. "Um, Scott, I see you standing right there. Do we need to go over the whole 'you hide and I try to find you' thing again? You're supposed to be waiting for the Olly olly oxen free before you show yourself." Sorry, got myself off on a tangent there. Enough about Scott.So, anyway, we find out that when Nora was kidnapped, her brain was wiped clean and that dear Patch, love of her life and all around hottie, asked her kidnapper that he wipe just a little bit more of her memories so it would be like he never met her. He's trying to pull an Edward Cullen, folks! And this is a guy who loves Nora. Wow, evil bad dude, would you be so kind as to mess up my girlfriend's brain for me?And the best part of all of this is that you get to spend over half of the book re-hashing what went on in the first two books.Fitzpatrick, you brilliant bookseller you. Think of the possibilities. Just think of it. If you're writing a series and you suddenly decide you've painted yourself into a corner, have your protagonist get amnesia and you can rewind and restart the whole thing. It's so smart that I just know it's a trend that will catch on and think of the possibilities. A series that's perhaps three books could be extended to six as you retread what you've already done and then, when you are almost at the denouement, you can do it again, another bonk on the head or brain-messing and tah-dah, more books. From a purely selling standpoint, it's pure genius. From a reader's standpoint, it's rubbish.And who's to blame??? Me. Just Me. I did this to myself.Think I'll have my brain wiped.