I'm not sure what to say aboutHeir of Fire. Perhaps I don't need to say anything beyond:it took memonthsto read it.And I am the kind ofcrazypassionate reader that finishes good books in a day or two. It's been a while since a book took me longer than a week to read.So basically:I liked but had issues withThrone of Glass.I absolutely LOVEDCrown of Midnight.But this book... this book was so... bloody... sloooooowwwwwww.I wanted to DNF it so bad. I kept moving it between my "currently reading" and "on hold" shelves. I kept wondering if I could possibly just skip the last two thirds of this book and somehow pick the story up in next installment (I was informed that I could not). I have invested so much time and love in this series and these characters that I simply had to make myself finish... but holy shit, it was such a struggle.The majority of this book?So Maas tries to experiment with a bit of something different here and it neither a) works, nor b) fills me with much confidence for the state of the rest of the series. I'm seeing the way this whole thing is going...Book one was fantasy-lite with a simplistic plot, filled with characters lacking in any real development to distinguish them from others in the genre, but it was fast-paced, sugary entertainment. Book two cranked it up several notches; here the characters became more fleshed out and nuanced, the plot was equally engaging but more complex and clever, and there was way more badassery. No complaints at all. And then we arrive at book three.Heir of Firefeels like an attempt to be more sophisticated. It is well-written, contains several stories told through constantly changing POVs, and it is more than a hundred pages longer. And it is far far slower. Maas sacrifices everything deliciously fast-paced and compelling about her series in the first half so we can be introduced to a whole new cast of characters we don't care about, be taken through different (all boring) perspectives, and emerge feeling like we've read an extremely long filler book.Dorian's new romance only served to remind me why I found him unbearably boring in the first book. Celaena - now in Wendlyn - meets a whole set of new people who failed to make any kind of impression on me. Even Chaol - whom I absolutely loved in both other books - lost his charm somewhere amid his own boring plot line. And just when I thought I might be starting to get invested in one of the stories, the chapter would end and I would leave the story of interest for at least fifty pages, guaranteeing that I would no longer care when we finally returned.The most annoying thing about this book is how it wasn't even consistently slow. We'd get tiny little tidbits of awesome that would last a mere two or three pages and I would sit up a bit straighter and think "This is it. Finally we're getting to the good stuff..." until I realised it was just a false alarm and the story was still boring.If I'm to give credit where it's due, I will say that I like the way Maas portrays friendships and makes them as important - if not more important - than the romantic relationships. It's an area of YA so often neglected and I find it especially refreshing to see a platonic relationship between young male and female characters crafted so well.I will be reading the next book just because I have to give it a shot, but my expectations have been significantly lowered.Blog|Leafmarks|Facebook|Twitter|Instagram|Tumblr