What is it with the Scottish school syllabus, that it's so obsessed with early twentieth century American playwrights? This is the second Tennessee Williams I've had to teach this year - and not so much as a Shakespeare to be seen. The Scots playwrights don't fare any better - there's a ton of Scottish poetry on the syllabus, but even for Liz Lochhead the poetry's all we get.Anyway, my copy ofThe Glass Menageriehas a favourable quote from Arthur Miller on the back, which I think falls under the general heading of "circlejerk", and also means that I'm far too cynical to do this any justice.As usual with this flavour of theatre, it's all gone horribly wrong for everyone, there's no way out(view spoiler)[at least not that isn't going to haunt you forever - whatdoeshappen to Laura after her brother makes his escape, after all?(hide spoiler)], and the devil's in the stage directions. If I get the chance to see this performed, I'm sure I'd jump at it; but if you give it to kids who don't think they like theatre anyway, it's not exactly the easiest to ignite the enthusiasm in them. At any rate, I have issues with it the same way I have issues with having to teach Steinbeck (whyOf Mice and Men, constantly?! mutter mutter joy of reading mutter), and it's not something I'd pick up by myself out of choice. So there we go.What I will say, though, is that the edition I have is edited by Professor Stephen Bottoms, and his commentary is really great - accessible, interesting, and the sort of thing that I privately think of as a bit like a wine-tasting, which is to say that it points out what I ought to be noticing and taking as important. I'm glad I've read it; I appreciate the play much better for it. Maybe I'll come back later and give this a proper, vaguely charitable review. But I have to give a lesson on the themes in an hour and a half, and while there's plenty to talk about, charitable today I am not.Some people must adore this. I can only think my heart goes out to Tennessee Williams: anyone whose creative expression has to come out like this andStreetcaris a person who needs more support and backup than the poor sod apparently got.