I give up.I just can't take it. When your back starts to hurt because you're trying to drag your eyes across the heavy pages of a non-event insipid book like this one, it's time to call it quits. Like, forever.I don't know how many times, while I was reading this, that I ended up staring into space and only realizing that I was after ten or so minutes had passed and the book fell out of my hand. I was so uninterested in this story that I began to daydream about exponentials and I started to notice the wisps of dog hair on the hardwood floor.Nothing happens in this book. Nothing. Literally, nothing. Everybody is going around their daily lives without any kind of issue; the only one who has an actual problem is Donia, but she was so dull I started skipping chapters whenever her name appeared under the nonsensical quotation.I just don't give a shit what happens to any of the characters. Seth is a goth; so what? Aislinn sees faeries; so what? Keenan wants a Summer Queen; so the fuck what? The main plot of this book was basically just all the characters trying not to sleep with each other. It's not hard, people, and it's also not interesting to anybody who isn't there. Reading this book was like sitting at the back of the school bus while everybody talks about how they went to a party at the weekend and this person was rumored to have boned this person, but when you go and actually ask whoever it was whose name was inserted into Generic Party Event Template they tell you they either didn't go to the party or their parents were there and everyone spent the night playingcheckers.It's not like the actual personalities of the characters are at all interesting, either. Aislinn has no interest in the world outside her own arse and it shows when she spends a minimal amount of time talking about normal stuff normal people talk about, but instead waxes on and on about how the fey are after her even though they never physically harm her in any way. If she's so desperate to be normal, why doesn't she actually TRY to achieve such a goal? Sorry, but if a heroine is going to appeal to me, she needs to a) not be a Mary-Sue, b) have a significantly larger emotional range than a sesame seed, c) and do something other than lie around complaining about her lot. Ever Bloom, I'm lookingrightat you.The writing wasn't terrible; that's pretty much what the one star covers. Of course, there was the whole 'WTF?' thrown in there that made me want to vomit into my hair, but other than that, there wasn't anything too dreadful about Mel's prose.Did I finish characterization? No?Oh, then on to Seth, and the fact that at eighteen he's had sex withso many peoplehe actually attends a clinic and has to produce paperwork to prove he's not carrying any STDs. Seth also lives in this unrealistic fairy tale setting - in a train car (I think. I haven't read this in a while) with a snake and a bunch of tats and piercings and having wild parties every night alongside both humans and fae. Wow! Could Seth be any cooler?Oh, he could. In fact, Seth is such a wet lump of charcoal that I couldn't take this Goth image as anything other than a pose or this lame book's attempt at distancing itself from the whole dreadful floppy-haired prep situation that's been sniffing around suspiciously in the YA section of late. Give me quirky characters any day of the week, but having a character composed entirely of forced quirks and living a life that issimply unfeasibleis a really good way to smack your reader about the head with a baseball bat labelled, "I'M TRYING EXTREMELY, ALMOST PERVERSELY HARD!"Remember the movieJuno? Where everybody talks and acts so unrealistically? That's what this book is like, and especially when Aislinn is around Seth. And I won't wax about their romance, because there's nothing to wax about - I just didn't care about it. Aislinn may as well have just dated herself because Seth has absolutely no personality. He doesn't speak in a certain way, has no interesting mannerisms, and really, he's just there to be a pillar to which Aislinn talks about her problems. And she talks about her problems a lot. A LOT.Okay, so...Seth?Sorry, but no. This was a total fail. Seth fits in justperfectlywith the floppy-haired preps in terms of total and utter personality lackage and a terrible attempt at being limply sexy.Oh, and then there was Beira, the useless villain with no motivation. Need I even bother saying more? Beira is pointless. Yeah, okay, she says some mildly rude things (no ruder than the things I say on a daily basis) and lies around on a couch, and we're expected to cower away from her as if she's any more intimidating than the Bad Pony?No. Just no.She's pathetic. I would have laughed at her had I not been so deathly bored. I would also have laughed at Keenan, except laughing at him would require wasting brain space thinking about him, so I won't go there. Really, the less said about the whole Summer Queen and staff and Winter Girl thing the better.That's another thing about this book. It makes absolutely no sense. I had no idea what was going on, and I gave up on page 205. Not an early bow-out. I get that Keenan wanted a Summer Queen, and that something happened to his father, and Beira is somehow more powerful, and there was something to do with touching a staff amid lots of faery sex, but really, that's as far as it got. I had some vague inclination that Aislinn was THE ONE but what she was THE ONE of and where it would go if she gave in to being THE ONE was all kind of a grey area for me.So, a summary? I thank all the gods of the earth and sun that I resisted buying this utter bollocks and libraried it. I'm actually not shitting you. To spend money on this would be to punch myself in the face repeatedly until I suffered massive brain damage and was no longerableto read and therefore suffer this tripe.In short: This book blows.