"Wicked Lovely" is a story of Aislinn, a teenage girl who has a rare ability to see faeries. This gift/curse troubles her, mostly because the fae world is cruel and ugly. For a long time she manages to hide this ability and stay unnoticed, but suddenly she finds herself a center of fae attention. We very quickly learn that Aislinn is chosen to have a special place in the faery world...Once again a book so popular and trendy and such a favorite of many of my friends, disappointed me. But first the positives. I liked the concept of the book and the ideas behind the faery mythology Marr created. In fact, her apparent strong knowledge of fae lore and interesting idea of Summer and Winter Courts saved this book from being just a tolerable read. I enjoyed the prologue and the quotes at the beginning of each chapter. I appreciate thorough research.What didn't work for me? Definitely the writing. I found that while the sentence structure of this book was overly simplistic, the narration itself seemed too confusing for me. The sentences in the paragraphs didn't flow together. I didn't care for the 3rd person narration with 1st person thoughts (by multiple characters) thrown in together. Neither did I care for long descriptive paragraphs between lines of dialog. It made me very often go back to previous lines paragraphs before just to keep up with a conversation. I also didn't find myself emotionally connected with any of the characters. For me Aislinn seemed whiny most of the book (she did perk up in the end though), Seth appeared to be a guy who does nothing wrong and yet at 18 has so my sexual past that he has to have himself frequently tested for STDs (?), Keenan - just bland...I would not discourage anybody from reading this series. It is after all very popular. I expect you will like this book if you are a fan of fairies and find guys with tattoos and pierced lips and navels attractive. Unfortunately these things are not quite within my scope of interest and therefore this book didn't work for me.Reading challenge: #1 - W