In Wicked Lovely, Aislinn was a girl who had been carrying a secret for her whole life: She could see fairies and had always tried hard to avoid attracting their attention for as long as she could recall. For fairies, unlike popular belief, were creatures who very much capable of mischiefs, torture, cruelty and harm.Much to Aislinn's fear, she found herself being stalked by two fairies, Keenan, the Summer King who had been looking for his lost Queen for centuries; Donia, Winter Girl and ex-lover of Keenan, who suffered with Keenan's betrayal for decades. Would Aislinn be the Summer Queen who Keenan was looking for? How would she choose between becoming a fairy or a life as mortal beside her love interest Seth?The first problem I have with the book is the main character Aislinn, I learn that she is a pretty girl, she has the Sight and had been tiptoeing to avoid attracting attention, pretending she can't see the fairies. Her grandmother who can also see the fairies is over protective toward her. The friends she had in school only care about who's dating who. She has a crush on her sexy friend Seth. That's almost all I have even learned about her. And these don't add up into much of an interesting, engaging character.There're so many things we don't know about Aislinn, how she came to befriend Seth? What she thought had ever happened to her late mother? Did she ever know anything about her absent father? A little background information would help a lot, but after reading half of the book, I'm still in the dark.Later Aislinn was attacked by some street gang and was rescued by Donia, but what I couldn't get is how come Aislinn could downplay the would-be-rape in front of both Donia and Seth. She kept saying 'It isn't so bad', 'It's nothing', but oh come on! Being gripped, cut and threatened by complete strangers ISN'T nothing! Please, a bit of common sense won't hurt anyone.I also have problem understanding what's going on with Seth. He's supposed to be the good, wonderful guy, right? However, not only he comes out as flat as a cardboard cutout Perfect Boyfriend, plus through Aislinn's viewpoint we learn that Seth didn't like her friends from highschool, for those friends were...vain? Shallow? Self central? Whiny? Or were they just too ugly to look at? Or was it just the age-gap thing? There're so many possible reasons for Seth to dislike/avoid Aislinn's friends (for they're pretty annoying at times), but the author never gives us a clear explanation. In this minor event, Seth turns out quite arrogant, 'I'm too good/smart to hang out with you folks' type instead of the nice guy he's supposed to be. If things are a little bit better explained, it could have been avoided.*slight plot spoiler warning*Furthermore, we're told that right after Aislinn shared her secret with Seth, Seth immediately believed her claim about the existence of fairies. Oh really? Even though Seth is an artist and he might have an imaginative mind, still how could a grown man accept such surreal claim at once without any doubt or second thought? That's just unbelievable.Just as unbelievable is the confident, sexually active Seth took time waiting for Aislinn to accept him for seven months. Frankly I'd thought that kind of cliche only exists in girl manga and Korean soap opera. I'd also thought that only love sick little highschool girls would do that 'waiting their love interests till he loves them back' stuff. In reality most guys would just shrug and move on to find another girl.As a whole, Seth and Aislinn's relationship is High School Musical at best, expects with the sex parts thrown in. After reading a number of recently published YA novels, it bothers me to learn authors seemingly love to write their heroines being hotly sought after by two or even more guys, even when those heroines barely have any adorable quality(...saves for their good look) or impressive characters to be spoken of. Goodness, how typical and wish-fulfilling can they get?Not to mention that the only good scene with Aislinn interacting with the main guy(s) is the one she had with Keenan in the fairy carnival. All the scenes with her and Seth together look dull.As to Keenan, he's difficult to relate to after we learn that he'd been ruining innocent girls' lives through out centuries. Plus he never talks/behaves like a fairy King who had already lived for nearly 1000 years. At best he sounds like any ordinary humanspoiled bratrich young heir who tried hard to take power from his control-freak evil mother.Speaking of the evil mother, Keenan's mom Beira a.k.a the Winter Queen is just a very stereotyped villain whose only purpose is to be evil. Why she is being so mean to her son? We never get a hint.By the way, we're told that if Beira wins, all the Summer Court fairies will die, that much I can accept; but when the author claimed that the mortal world will also froze over and the mortals will be starving. Could she really expect we all buy this theory? Not only that the story takes place in the modern world where Global Warming is much more a problem than the coming of the new Ice Age, also in the book it was never ever being hinted that the weather is getting any colder than usual in where Aislinn lived. ARGH. Epic Fail at internal logic within the story.Most of the main characters in the book are just...flat. They're like characters from some badly written Japanese girl manga or mediocre fanfictions. Don't get me wrong, I'd read amazing girl manga and fanfictions, but when I saw novels which are really unimpressive fanfictions in disguise, I can still recognize it.The long suffering Donia is the only character that holds my interest. My heart goes to her at once, and her relationship with Keenan is filled with conflicts and raw emotion that it's the bright spot of the story.Still, credits must be given to the author, Miss Marr for keeping her fairies close to the Sidhe myth and she made use of the said myth quite well.Half way through the book I started wondering: 'What if Wicked Lovely has a little more suspense instead of being written so blandly, with the readers knowing what's going on with almost every characters with hardly any effort on guessing?' Yeah, suspense is seriously lacking in this book, we learn what Keenan, Donia and even Beira are up to within the first 40 pages. Actually we can learn the main plot and everyone's intention by simply looking upon the introduction at the book's backcover. It's all there. The author probably don't want her readers to enjoy the pleasure of figuring the characters and their motives/schemes out by themselves. How great it'd be if only Keenan or Beira's scheme have been slowly revealed to us, if only it isn't being hinted so often that Aislinn is 'special' or we can't easily figure out which side Doina is going to choose till the last second!Speaking of covers, Stephenie Meyer supposedly said that the one good thing about Wicked Lovely is its cover. It's really, really sad that I have to agree with her. *facepalms*But honestly, Stephenie Meyer's remark on Wicked Lovely can very well be used on her own Twilight series.By the end of the story, Aislinn had already made a few mistakes which someone who supposedly had been aware of the existence of fairies and feared them for her whole life SHOULDN'T be making. Why she seemed to be so ignorant of the tricks of fairies in those critical moments? Why must Seth be the one to research about fairies and their ways? Shouldn't Aislinn be knowledgeable about those detail already?Things finally start to speed up by the last 40 or 30 pages, and Seth got his brief moment to shine. But it's a bit too late to tidy up all the loosen ends in a rush. Still I'm relief to see Aislinn finally, finally growing a backbone and deciding what she wanted for her future, what roles she wanted and didn't want to play. For that alone she at least redeems herself from becoming a loser such as Bella Swan.To sum up, the first book of the Wicked Lovely series has potentials, but not much effort had been taken in order to make the most out of them. And this book shows that the author lacked planning before she went ahead with the idea of the series, e.g. In book 2 it's revealed that Niall had been around in the Summer Court even since Keenan's father was alive and the guy had been looking after Keenan even since, but in book 1 it'd never been showed or hinted at that he had such special part in Keenan's life.If you want to read better fairies-themed texts, read Holly Black's Modern Fairies Tale series, or even the anime/manga My Neighbor Totoro, Princess Mononoke and Spirited Away (all by Hayao Miyazaki).