Maybe I'm just not in my normal-teenage-girl state of mid @ the moement but I did not like this book. Seriously, the writing annoyed me ALOT for the first hundred pages(like, you know how they're always talking about how Zoey never curses, well she cursed a little bit in a beginning and they ALL still acted like it was totally normal for her to be cursing when you know Aphrodite would've been like "whoa") And what was with all the "Damien an Jack" are gay parade in the beginning? Really, we've read about it for the past 4 books I think we're over it, and the gays-are-good-cooks joke was really annoying. And it seemed like they were trying WAY TOO HARD to get the characters to sound like "normal teenagers". Honestly Casts, just because they talk like us doesn't make them LIKE us and it doesn't convince your READERS that the characters are all confused about lots of things. They're supposed to NOT be like us. They're supposed to be vastly more mature and maybe nervous and a little scared.And the dialogue was crap. I know you're supposed to fit a lot of info in a little space but it seemed like they were going through like 3 different personality changes while they talked for one paragraph.And what was with the Kalona "You're my A-ya..my love!" thing? I know PC is a romance novelist but COME ON. Does Zoe REALLY have to have every kind of important figure guy that stumbles into the plot?Also, I know people say that she wasn't as hoe-ish as she was in Chosen(and she wasn't) but she did have her moments. Like now she has three "boyfriends" AGAIN. And it seems like the Casts have invented a way for her to keep her whore urges excusable. She can have a Vamp Mate AND a human consort AND Stark is her Warrior so she gets to keep ALL of them. Instead of, I don't know, DUMPING Erik(leaving him to be with one of the many girls who like him) or Trying to Successfully get the idea that her and Heath are only friends through Heath's head or letting Stark go be some kind of manwhore at the House of Night.