"Hunted" is one of those books I was majorly looking forward to. Unfortunately some of my speculations came true. There were two things that had bothered me from the beginning of the series. 1) the constant summarizing of past events and characters. I don't understand why after four books we need to be reminded of things we already know. These books aren't stand alone so therefore the redundancy became irritating. 2) The constant flip flop of love interests. Zoey is a strong character yet, she keeps relying on guys, and at the same time can't make up her mind. She's looking like a ho and even she doesn't like it. Well, maybe it's time to stick to a boy, Z. In fact, why are we going in circles with this book? Are we seriously back to Heath?The plot left me hanging a bit. I wanted so much more than I got (more about that on Discussion Thursday with Ravenous Reader) The beginning starts off well. The dream (the one from chapter one online) is kick-butt. A great concept that seems to appear a bit throughout, but not enough. The story goes in circles a bit , and once again we find ourselves in a familiar love triangle, or maybe even square. "Hunted" moves along nicely despite some slow parts and some unpleasant parts. The book lacks a real big climax and leave you wanting more. This whole book is more of filler than anything else but it leaves you hanging where I KNOW I'll be getting the rest of the series ASAP!There's some crazy new character developments. For one the a fore mentioned triangle, square. Then there's an interesting twist involving Aphrodite, Darius, and Stevie Rae. Not to mention the guys: Erik, Heath, Stark. The characters are interwoven really nicely and its great to see the relationship grow and develop. This book was entertaining and fun, filled with wise cracking jokes and fun filled character craziness (that's the best way to describe it i.e. Jack's sandwiches).The books is what I expected, though not without a few minor disappointments. I just want to get to the next book and see what happens with Zoey and her Nerd Herd.I give this book a 80/100 B-Characters-19Plot- 15Writing-15Originality-16Re-Readability- 15