Time for something completely different and some female authors as well. This author is pretty famous I guess and this book has thousands of reviews on G'reads. My paperback edition has a cover similar to this but not identical. Copyright 1988. So far ... the author leans on the Kountry Kute button rather heavily, but I'm OK with it - so far. I hope I don't get all worn out and such. Making the eccentric believable and compelling can be a challenge. My nephew's wife is from Kentucky, so I can imagine the accent pretty well.- a sentence that doesn't work ... "The clouds were pink and fat and hilarious-looking, like the hippo ballerinas in a Disney movie." 1) I'm 71 years old an have seen lots of clouds, but never saw any that struck me as "hilarious-looking." and 2) the hippo ballerinas are in a specific Disney movie(Fantasia) and no other that I know of. The sentence should read "in THAT Disney movie"We've moved along past the halfway point at a leisurely pace. The writing is good and clear so I'm mostly enjoying the ride. The believe-ability factor is an issue but one can set it by and keep going. How long can Taylor keep a-hold of a child she has no legal right to be "in possession" of? We'll see, I guess.Moving on and ... oh no! Taylor is falling in love. And thus we enter dicey territory for authors. There a bazillion romance novels out there of dubious literary value and there are plenty more stories, like this one, which endeavor to take the issue "seriously." So far I'm NOT encouraged, but we'll see. It's VERY hard for an author to tell any kind of a "real" love story and not make it boring for a male reader(and for female readers too, just to be fair). It can, however, be done. Jane Austen and John Green come quickly to mind. I'd have to check my book list("Indecision" is another one) for more examples, but they're out there.- WTF are "beef shingles"? I assume the author is referring to "shit on a shingle," which is chipped beef or ground beef in gravy poured over toast. MMMMMMMM! I suppose it's possible that BK was trying to make Taylor look cute in having her describe it that misunderstanding kind of way.Finished last night with a bit of an underwhelming feeling. This book is an obvious 3* - right in the middle of things. Taylor is a kind of opaque and un-interesting character, though possibly more compelling to female readers. Still, I respect the author for keeping it real enough, although the overall premise is not exactly reality-based. You know, being "gifted" with a needy little kid as an opportunity for YOU to grow up and take responsibility. I might give the author another shot. After all, this was her first effort.- the kid grab in the park = R. Ford's "The Womanizer"- a "you see" pops up - my bugaboo- If you were trying to avoid "La Migra" driving E. out of Tucson, you might want to AVOID "the ten"(I-10). I'm just sayin' ...- I didn't read the little bit of "The Poisonwood Bible" teaser at the end, though I might read that one some time.