Little House in the Big Woodsis whatWaldenwishes it was, or could have been if Thoreau wasn'tsuch a dick.Laura and her family aren't misanthropic creeps - and they have real skills, unlike vacationing Thoreau. But the book is about self-reliance, getting back to the basics, and living in harmony with nature. It shares a philosophy withWalden- along with two other sortof less-great things.The first is a hopeless lack of plot, and that frustrated me when I first read it. And I do meanfirst read:this was the first chapter book I ever read all by myself. I battled through the entire series, because my mother told me I'd be a good reader when I was done, and I suppose it worked (I can read!) but honestly I should have just stuck to comic books; the meandering pace here wasn't a great match for little me. (Some of theLittle Housebooks have more plot than others.)The second thingLittle Houseshares withWaldenis that it'sbullshit.Thoreau went home to his mommy when he wanted cookies, and Laura's family were actually subsistence farmers always one bad season away from starving to death. Wilder leaves out her brother's death in infancy to focus on singing by the fire. Both books hide the hardships of the lives they promote.Wilder's book was published in 1932, during the Depression, and it was a collaboration between Wilder and her daughter Rose Wilder Lane, who was a successful novelist and also a rabid libertarian who advocated the assassination of New Dealing FDR and threatened todo it herself.This is the story Lane and Wilder want to sell you: hardy stock living by their own hard work without government interference. In reality, the Wilders lived harsh and desperate lives. Young, just-married Laura's first farm failed, and she lost it. It was only these books that finally pulled her out of a life of poverty - these books, which advocated exactly the grueling life they rescued her from.That said, this is still a great source of information about such topics as:- Making maple sugar- Square dancing- How much Laura's sister sucks- Why children should be seen and not heard - remember when that was a thing? Ha!- Old-timey songs, and there's a song about an "old darkey" who dies that you will need to watch out for if you're reading this to your child. It's in chapter 5. That's the only truly oh-shit content.- Weaving straw hats- Old-time candy - if there is a plot, it's that Laura Ingalls Wilder has a sweet tooth; this book is basically about candy- Leaving babies in a pile on a bed while everyone does square dancing- Extremely specific gender rolesIt's pleasant enough to read, if a little boring. Just keep in mind, when Laura says,"This is now."She was glad that the cosy house, and Pa and Ma and the firelight and the music, were now. They could not be forgotten, she thought, because now is now. It can never be a long time ago.It can never be now, either; it never existed at all.