Gone is like a mix of Lord of the Flies, Under the Dome, Animal Farm, Lost, Kid Nation, Heroes, X-Men and that Simpsons Movie...This book I think is popular and also has quite number of fans but I haven't read it immediately because the book was very thick and I just find that I'm too lazy to follow a series like this. However I changed my mind and finally decided to read the first book.At first my opinion about this book is, it is a very easy read. The sentences and the dialogues are kept simple. There are many times that I find it too simple but I think it made sense because the target of this book are young adults and I think even a nine year old can follow the words and sentences used in this one.Also what I like about this book is that, it is really scary. There are moments that I just find myself having goosebumps and it was just really creepy.Also I like that there are many characters in this book and my favorite character ironically is one of the bad guys which is Dianna. She has the power to know someone's power level by merely touching his or her hand. I jst find her really interesting.What I don't like about this one is that it is you know something that is not that "original" because you can see that the idea of it was already seen from other books, TV series, movie etc.I also don't like the fact that there are many times wherein I found the kids unrealistically acting like adults. These kids are 14 years old and below however they can use the fire hydrant, fire hose, the oxygen tank and the oxygen mask, some of them can drive and can measure a city's radius, hack a computer, use a machine gun etc. Those kind of things wherein you'll just say, "Blimey, smart kids."I also find the answer to the mystery of the "poof" and how you can not "poof" cheesy.And there's this moment wherein I just can't understand the logic why do these kids wanted to kill other kids. I find the logic of Battle Royale and Hunger Games somewhat realistic because they only kill other children because their lives are at stake and it is the Society that dictates to kill.But here it's a matter of free will more similar to Lord of the Flies. It comes from their own savage mind and I just find myself having a hard time to buy that idea.