QUEEN OF THE DAMNED is a ridiculous novel. It's a gleefully, explosively, imaginatively, entertaining, bizarrely ridiculous novel. I don't mean that as an insult but as a literal statement of fact. Whenever something weird happens in this novel, something else comes along a few pages later to top it. I really don't know how to summarize just how utterly off the rails this book is compared to its predecessors.The previous two books are stories of how two people get turned into vampires and follow one embracing it while the others hates it. This involves a man-hating Egyptian Pharaoh, two sisters enslaved because they can talk to spirits (which in this novel is explicitly a completely useless ability), an ancient vampire rising to eat all her progeny so she can rule the world, a gathering of a vampire army to save the world, plus Lestat preventing the end of the world with being so hot the villain doesn't want to kill him. This is in addition to the fact Lestat becomes a rock god all individuals worship with the power of his psychedelic undead style. I mean, that is the least weird part of this novel.Most of the book is a flashback to Ancient Egypt and develops the main villain by establishing she's not only vicious but also an idiot. She kidnaps the aforementioned sisters because they can talk to the spirits and wants to use this to discover the secrets of the gods. You know, despite the fact they say the spirits are just a bunch of idiots who hang around doing nothing. This results in a bizarre plan that creates vampires that turn out to all be a product of her existential crisis about religion--that later turns into a belief that 90% of all men should be culled because we're violent savages. Lestat will be spared, though, because he's hot. Oh and we can't kill the villain because all vampires will die if she does and that's bad because our protagonists are all vampires. There's also a young woman's quest to prove, yes, her creepy but loving unaging aunt is a vampire.Huh, I guess I can explain it.It's a book I found quite entertaining and inspired such things as Vampire: The Masquerade's antediluvians but it is strange as hell. Don't watch the movie, though, as I feel the bizarre fact to say that it manages to make an incredibly strange (but fun) reading experience tedious.