Sun Tzu's The Art of War is said to be the oldest military treatise in the world. Written centuries before the height of the Chinese empire before the common era, this slim volume did not make its way to the west until 1890, when French colonists brought a copy back to Paris. Regarded as classic by many, I decided to read the treatise for myself. Selecting an edition translated by Lionel Giles, the version I read was a mere 98 pages in length and at times underwhelming.The first forty pages of the volume I selected was a whirlwind of a rundown of over two thousand years of Chinese history. Not much quantity was given to any particular dynasty or time period, and it seemed as though this introduction was written for a high school text book. It was difficult to keep dates and names straight, and the only significant item that stood out was the construction of the Great Wall and its subsequent expansion. The only saving grace of this introduction was a timeline that contrasted eras of history with Chinese dynasties and their contributions to both Chinese and world history. While I found out that the origins of foot binding occurred nearly one thousand years ago, this historical footnote did little to benefit the actual text and its place in literary history.Perhaps the edition I read is dated. Currently many western schools teach Chinese to children as young as six so by the time that they are adults, these children turned adults are fluent in Mandarin. Likewise, as China has opened to the west, educated Chinese have knowledge in English. Unfortunately, I was at the liberty of what was available at my library system, and a modern, more fluid translation was not available to me. While it is apparent that Giles has knowledge of Chinese, at times it was hard to follow whether the words were Giles' insights or Sun Tzu's words. Including numerous examples of modern warfare to augment the text, Giles does not give justice to Sun Tzu's original intent. While these examples lend credence to how the Chinese military treatise has been implemented over the years, I was more interested in the original text than the interpretations of it.Tzu's actual text is limited due to the translation. It does offer advice to militaries as to how to implement battle plans. These include the knowledge of terrain, the season in which to invade, and knowledge of one's enemy and how to overcome one's deficiencies. Giles takes liberties in discussing why certain chapters are included where they are, and I give him credit for taking the time to discuss the Chinese tradition of honor and killing oneself if a soldier committed an error of warfare. I found this especially intriguing in terms of spying and what an honorable Chinese soldier would do when either caught by his enemy or when having failed to deliver information to his superior. As one who enjoys reading about and watching films about modern espionage, I thought it was fascinating that the Chinese had developed rules in regards to spies over two thousand years ago.The Art of War has been utilized by armies for over two centuries. The fact that it has endured is a testament to Chinese culture and traditions that have remained unspoiled over the millennia. I feel as though I would have enjoyed the treatise more if I had read a more modern version where the translation was seamless and did not indulge on the liberties of the translator. As a result I found myself reading more of the translator's interpretations and addendums than the actual text. I would be interested in reading an unspoiled edition of this classic as it remains relevant in warfare today.3 stars, downgraded for translation