After finishing the book, I can totally understand whyThe Bourne Identityhas attained such a cult-status among it's readers. In fact out of my 32 friends who have the book in their shelves in GR, 18 have given it a 4/5 star rating. To begin with, it is a pretty decent thriller. It has an amazing start, a couple of interesting characters, a protagonist you can root for, fast twists and turns and some powerful action sequences.Thepremise really impressed me. A nameless man with highly unusual skills to kill, defend and protect wakes up without a memory in a strange island off the French coast, soon to realize that there are many who want him dead. To know how to save himself, he must first rediscover his identity. Thus begins a frantic race against time to understand, cope and deal with every startling clue that he uncovers, while fighting against his untraceable enemies.However, there were a few things in the novel which sototally did not work for me, and compelled me to knock off two stars. Firstly, would a girlreallyfall in love with a man who held her hostage, and manhandled herjust becausehe later saved her life? I mean of course it can happen, and is even highly probable, but it just seemed a bit toocontrived, a little too sudden. The build up could've been better. Also the fact that the hero had to find a girlfriend who was a financial whiz-kid, when he was in desperate need of one, just seemed a little too easy. Tooconvenient. Am I nitpicking? Maybe. But, when I read a thriller, too many coincidences just makes the story lame. Another fact which I noticed was that the standard of writing was inconsistent. At parts they were patchy, incoherent, and had to be skimmed through/re-read(depends on your patience) to be comprehended.And so I draw my conclusions thatRobert Ludlumhas a pretty good imagination and knows how to hold the reader's attention, but is not much gifted as a writer. Still, just because of the story line I will definitely continue with the trilogy. Lets see how it turns out. As for now, I would strongly ask you to give this book a try, for at the end of the day, I cant deny that it is apretty entertainingread!