Okay, now that two people who's opinion I typically admire and generally like have told me how much they "loved" this book, I have to fess up...I didn't LOVE it. I thought it was good. I think Dubus is amazing at voice and plot is definitely exciting but about 1/2 way into, my brain started kerplunking over passages and I felt like I was watching a mini-series and I was just anxious for it to be over.The first kerplunk was when Lester went to the woods to cut fire wood. Hellooooooooo! everyone knows that you can't just cut wood and use it the same day. You've got to let it dry for a season. geesh.And when Kathy was describing him, "Once we got all the logs in a pile in front of the porch" ("green" logs, I might add) "Lester took off his shirt and started splitting them with the ax........The sweat was dripping off is nose and mustache" ("mustache"-ed policman...gross!)..."and he smiled and thanked me,....leaned over and gave me a short wet kiss....His shoulders and back were gleaming with sweat, and veins were starting to come out in his long arms. sometimes he would let out a littl grunt as he swng the ax down onto the end of the log...."so here I am reading a perfectly respectable book about class systems, isolation, and loneliness and next thing you know there's sweaty mustaches, grunting and fake fires.Then, a few pages later Kathy is describing her bathing in the creek, "I pulled off my top and bra, stepped out of my shorts and panties and waded out in the cold water and dived in."oh brooooooooother! she is so NOT the kind of woman that would refer to her undergarments as "panties". Apparently Dubus realized this as well because he later had her refer to them as underwear. I suppose he's entitled to take a little walk down fantasy lane with the characters he's created, I'm just saying it took a little away from the story for me.All that being said, I thought the hospital scene was amazing and the Colonels actions made me feel like retching (I mean that as a compliment to the author).This is a book I would/will/have recommend to people that say they're "not readers". I think it's compelling enough to keep people tied in and, with the few exceptions listed above, written with quality language.