Thomas, honeybunch? We need to talk.What exactly happened here?In the first book, you were a huge Gary Stu, yes, but you also captured my heart with your endearing awkwardness.You were a confused little boy that awakened the mama bear in me and made me want to take you in my arms and squeeze you til all the insecurity is gone. For the Scorch Trials, I still wanted to play the mom, but the kind that whacks you a new one so you'llsort your shit out.How the hell did you go from this:To this:Half the book was you mooning over Teresa and this other girl, Brenda.Are you sure Nora fromCrescendodidn't undergo a hostile takeover? For a book that claims it's The Hunger Games for dudes, you have more Paranormal Romance vibes than THG does, what with the goo-goo eyes, she-loves-me-she-loves-me-not, and a completely unnecessary love triangle."That they were safe, that he and Teresa could get to know each other again. That life could be good.""Oddly, the thing that stood out the most to Thomas was Teresa's last name.""Thomas found himself hoping she was the Brenda girl Jorge had mentioned.""Brenda didn't take her eyes off Thomas. As for him, he still felt the tingle that had shot through his entire body when she'd touched him with her lips.""Something stirred inside him, mixed with guilt and longing for Teresa.""Once again, Thomas felt a ridiculous surge of guilt like he was cheating on Teresa. He couldn't help that this girl was so touchy-feely."Teresa, Brenda, why do you even exist? There's no difference between the two of you. You're not characters, you're props used to further Thomas's love life.That's your label: Thomas' Love Interest 1 and Thomas' Love Interest 2.(view spoiler)[It's more apt than The Betrayer.(hide spoiler)]And both of you are impossibly gorgeous too. I'm against the large amount of hot male love interests in YA and I'm against you too.Remove the fanservice headband and grow some personality. Please.Minho, babe, you were the only thing that kept me afloat in this sea of teenage hormones and mediocre writing. You were a gem in the first book:leader of the Runners, competent, yet you ran off during an extremely important moment. That only made me love you more because you were reacting exactly like an a scared teenage boy. Then, you redeemed yourself further by coming back to help Thomas.Here, you're the leader, the rock that keeps everyone moving.Even when the people you're supposed to protect die, you push on, not allowing yourself to cry.You should be the main character, not Thomas.I perked up when you entered the scene, and face-palmed when you departed (because Thomas had to go off for 'bonding time').It's because of you that I'm going to read the last book. And to find out what happens.Mediocre writing and sucky romance aside, the author can spin an entertaining story.So stay alive and stay wonderful.Sincerely,A fan who's still holding out for the magic of The Maze Runner.P.S. If you kill Minho for a shitty reason, I will bevery unhappy. Which will not end well.My review of The Kill OrderMy review of The Maze RunnerMy review of The Death Cure