Eh. Well. The first book is always going to be the best, am I right? I just wishChampioncould've denied that statement. But it did not, and now I am here, dejectedly sipping gingerbread tea and morosely eating my cheerios while writing a review that should've been filled with screaming and jumping gifs, yet all it is filled with is a distressed Ariel and a run-on sentence.2 things:1. Marie Lu is still an extremely talented writer, and if you think I hate her in any way, shape, or form, I hope the next time you eat pie it's filled with pig saliva and miley cyrus's tongue.2. This book was not bad. I do not hate this book. I do not want to slice open the innards of this book and burn it in a bonfire. I still like this book, just not as much as I was hoping too.Off the bat, let me say that I, and many other fellow good readers, had high expectations from Lu. How could I not, afterProdigy?So even before I read the first page, I was expecting a finale even better thanProdigy, even better thanLegend, and that is (sadly) not what I got.But you silly nuisance! Do not think I despised this book! I still enjoyed it. I'll admit it: I'm an action junkie. I like kickass protagonists who can hold their own and I hate damsels in distress. June isnot by any meansa damsel in distress. She's a ninja and she rocks. However, the action aspect of thisbookwas disappointing. Politics and plotting are awesome, yeah, but in moderation. I was craving theadventureand theaction. Sure, I got some in the end, but not enough to satisfy my sweet tooth.For the most part, that was the main issue. The action. There were a few minor issues too, but they were few and far between and not really worth mentioning because you probably don't care/I'm irrevocably lazy.YET:(view spoiler)[Am I the only one who gets super pissed off every time the teenage protagonist/love interest have sex? Not that I'm against sex or whatever, but it gets me irritated that society has deemed it "ok" for teenagers. WHAT THE HECK? You're 17, keep it in your pants for once.(hide spoiler)]Iwillsay that June and Day did not entice me as much as normal. I don't know why, I still did like them, but it was difficult for me to feel for them on an emotional level. Why do this happen plz?! Someone tell meh?!Also, it's unnecessary for Eden's hair to be platinum blonde. I'm a redhead, and the only one in my family. Day, John, and Eden don't all need to have the same color hair. I understand why John did and how it was beneficial to the story, but Eden could've been a nice dark brown. Or a dirty blonde. Or even freaking bald. It made me angry and I am confused why it did but it did. That is all.Aaaaand:The ending didn't do it for me. Feel free to attack me in the comments. (Please don't) (I'm only human)Let me elaborate. While the ending may have been a "twist", I was actually kind of expecting it. Seriously, how many times has that happened? I didn't gasp or faint or have a meltdown. I pretty much just sighed and flipped to the next page.(view spoiler)[The "10 years after" part was lame. Sorry. It was cheesy and expected. It may have fulfilled some other readers hopes and wishes, but for me, it was disappointing. Was10 yearsrequired? And why is June still tummy aching over Day? Maybe I'm cruel and heartless, but I would've preferred Day just to completely forget June and them to start all over again, without him remembering. HE WAS FREAKING WEARING THE PAPER CLIP RING. Where the heck did her find that? How did he not lose it? Aren't his fingers bigger by now? Haven't people told him it looks stupid? Ugh. And for a celebrity like him, there's no way he could've walked down that street without anyone noticing. Just sayin'.(hide spoiler)]...Ok ok ok. I am done. I think I've said enough jibber jabber at the point. So, in the end, anacceptableending to a well done series. Marie Lu, I'm still a fan and will be reading more from you soon. Day and June, thanks for being badass and having cute names.As much as it pains me to say it, farewellLegend. Thanks for the good times.Hope all of you who celebrate it had a darling Thanksgiving and stuffed yourselves to the point of exploding. If not, screw you and your willpower. I had pie for breakfast.So, onto the next book. Toodaloo.