SPOILERS!Well, everything one might say about this book could be taken as a spoiler, including this very remark.The book is a pretty good read, or it would have been if it had weighed in at two hundred or so pages shorter. And, given that the book is entirely a gradual denouement, one has to admire Fowles's skill in controlling it over such a long span, like a musician making a hugely long crescendo.But I guess in the end, I didn't much like the book. In the 'trial' scene, a report is read out about the narrator of which the narrator himself admits a large amount of validity. And I can't help feeling that it indicts (and is supposed to indict) the author himself. The book is narcissistic in the extreme. A narcissistic young man, much more immature than he thinks he is, becomes the object of a psychological experiment? or intervention? conducted by a group of enormously wealthy people who stage manage all sorts of weird situations on a beautiful Greek island. They include a pair of beautiful young female twins (yes, two!, count 'em) of which one (and it's clear it might have been both) does all sorts of nice things to his private parts. They are allso interestedin him. Isn't that cool?Apparently, he's only the latest in a succession of such experiments/interventions all conducted, you guessed it, on narcissistic young men who are much more immature than they think they are! And it seems they've all involved kinky situations in which the bounds of bourgeois morality are swept away in the name of some unnamed and unspecified higher truth. Exactly why these people are doing what they are doing, whether really out of benevolent concern for all these young men, or out of commitment to some liberated science, is never exactly made clear. (Clearly, any answer to this would be too 'little' or parochial to justify all the action that the group generates, so it really cannot be explained without deflating the entire book. But that's never a good thing in a book, when it has to keep silent on something so as not to appear silly.)And the attitudes to gender throughout the book! OK, granted, it's partly about how the narrator comes to realize he's fucked up about this, but 600 pages of desperate desire for the female muse alternating with enraged desire to whip (literally) and crush (metaphorically) various of the women involved in the narrator's 'education', followed by 50 pages of "oh I must try and do better".... Well, I'm not convinced. The book seems an unpleasant young man's jerk off fantasy (which makes his control of the book's crescendo over such a long span all the more impressive, I suppose).There's also a whole epistemological theme to the book. How, it asks, do we know what's real? How tell what's true? But I'm damned if I see what the book is supposed to say about that. No-one who stumbles into the perfectly executed plans of rich eccentrics with unlimited resources to control is going to be able to separate reality from illusion. I mean, come on. Descartes's evil genius has nothing on Maurice Conchis.So, final verdict: the book is callow and jejune. And not in a nice way.