2.5 stars...Okay okay okay so... THIS BOOK. I'm so conflicted, I hated half of the things that happened but loved the other half! I was going to let myself give it 5 stars just for the AWESOME ending (overall the whole second part of the book was AMAZING), but the first part was unbearable! I believe it took me one week to finish it, while the second part I read it only in one day because OMGITWASSOAMAZING and I couldn't stop. BUT YES, the first part: BORING and ANNOYING. There are so many pages in this book and I don't feel they were necessary, also, I wanted to punch everyone.Another thing that I hated was what SJM did to my babies: CHAOL AND DORIAN. Especially to Chaol, he was so OoC most of the time! AND YES, I was a Chaolena shipper, (WAS, because that ship SUNK in this book and I'm so mad and sad and torn), but I wouldn't be as mad if SJM hadn't RUINED the character. She also ruined Chaolena's dynamics, she made them almost hate each other! At the end of the book everything is kinda better between them, but it will never be the same. So goodbye to my beautiful ship. Chaol didn't deserve what SJM did to him. And about Dorian... he wasn't in enough pages of this book. He was barely there (OH BUT AT THE END HE WAS SO AWESOME, I LOVE HIM SO MUCH).I'm not really fond of the whole Rowan/Aelin thing. I MEAN, I love Rowan, I really do! But what I liked about them was their friendship! It's really hard to find something like that in a YA book and I loved it, BUT THEN in this book they are suddenly all in love with each other, it doesn't make any sense! I can accept them together, I know I can, but SJM could have done a better job in making them fall in love with each other slowly, so WE the readers could notice the change! It was so abrupt! And I was so tired of hearing them saying how stunning and perfect the other was. Bleh. And tbh, they mostly wanted to undress each other in every scene they had together.SO... SHIPS I'M NOT ON BOARD:- Rowan/Aelin: I think they can convince me, but right now I'm a little icky towards them.- Chaol/Nesryn: I like Nesryn as a character, but SJM just put her in the book so Chaol could have a new couple, and it felt forced.MY NEW SHIPS:- Dorian/Manon: OOPS, am I the only one who ships them!? I mean, they surely can become a thing! The few encounters they had were some of the best parts of the book! And Dorian remembers her and FKDKDKGKGA. I don't wanna say much because SPOILERS, but yes, Dorian and Manon would be a powerful and really interesting couple.- Dorian/Chaol: YES I SHIP THEM. Can they get married, like, right now?And yeah... that's basically it. I just want to say that I absolutely LOVED the second part of the book. I couldn't stop reading! Dorian, Manon and Aelin are my heroes! GO, them!...EDIT: Just to add the thing I hate the most about this series! I absolutely HATE that EVERYONE IS SO IN LOVE WITH AELIN. Not just in this book, but in the WHOLE SERIES! Since book one! Sam, Chaol, Dorian, Arobynn, Aedeon, Rowan, even Lysandra... at some point of the series they have marveled at how stunning and beautiful and amazing Celaena/Aelin is, and I can't stand it! I mean, yeah she's awesome, I get it, but it's so unrealistic. Every male she befriends has to fall in love with her :/.