Victor Frankenstein, the discouraged scientist reveals his horrific secrets on board a ship exploring the Arctic Ocean (The old dream of a northwest passage), being rescued from an ice flow, he fears that no one will believe his story of creating a "monster", that viciously kills in the late 1700's ...who would ? At first the leader of the rugged crew the skeptical Captain Robert Walton, thinks Frankenstein is insane, after all, Victor was found with a dog sled in the middle of the rough, angry sea, what was he doing there ? However the sailor has a kind heart and softens, he listens politely...Born and raised in Geneva, Switzerland to a good family, he Victor Frankenstein attends the University in Ingolstadt, Bavaria (Germany). Studying chemistry , the gifted young man soon becomes the top student in school, even more amazingly surpassing the professors, who are surprised to say the least by his great ability. Frankenstein gets the bright idea, it will cause unforeseen difficulties in the future, to bring to life a new man, out of different body parts (The first mad scientist in history). Still getting cold feet when the dead creature unbelievably comes alive, the petrified Victor runs away like a coward, not caring of the consequences to others, their safety is not important ...just his . When Frankenstein nerves calm down, he finally returns and the monster is gone...Months...slowly pass ...but when a member of his family is brutally murdered, Frankenstein knows who is responsible. The conscience - stricken gentleman has no choice , meeting the frightening, ugly, hideous looking abomination on top of a cold glacier, Victor's creation demands that he make a female for the lonely "man", he seems to agree, if he wants to live. Later traveling with his good friend Henry Clerval on a leisurely trip through Europe not for pleasure , but in order to forget , they finally stop on a remote island off the coast of Scotland. Sending the very reluctant Henry away and getting back to business, he has a lot of hard work to do . A new atrocity , to create, a female, nevertheless Frankenstein has many second thoughts...Does he really want a new tribe of monstrous people, all butchers, capable of taking over the entire world. Yet the problem is that Frankenstein's fiend has threatened to destroy his whole family, if he doesn't comply with his request, make that demand. What would you do ? The first modern science-fiction book written in the early 19th century , 1818, still entertains, Mary Shelley was 21 and began the story as a teenager, a talented woman shows the boys how it's done and the rest is history...