2.7/5 starsProdigywas one of my most anticipated sequels of 2013. Unfortunately, it might be one of the most disappointing reads of the year as well, for the following reasons:1. The beginning bored me to death.The recap was lacking and I felt lost reading the story for a very long time. Also, the first half was unbearably slow. I kept skimming through large chunks of the narration in hopes that the pace would eventually pick up but it took over 50% for the action to really get going.2.The dialogue felt unnaturally stiff and the lack of communication between June and Day made me inwardly cringe more times than I can count. Their understanding does get better towards the end, but they had way too many awkward moments during the book for me to devotedly cheer them on. With these two,I'm just not sure if they're better off with or without each other.3. Day's POV did not feel realistic at all.Truthfully, I haven't read that many young adults with male POVs, but his doesn't sound at like a teenage boy's, even one that's been through as much as he has. He was overly dramatic at times and drastically moody at others.4.I never thought I'd say this about aLegendnovel, butthere's more angst in this book than action. And more surprising still, it's Day who was the angsty one. June had her moments too, but they were greatly outnumbered by Day's melodrama.5.The love square is the most disappointing and irritating part of the book. I was so happy thatLegenddidn't have one that this almost feels like a betrayal. I'd become deeply invested in Day and June and their romance by the end ofLegend, and now I'll be surprised if we can get a half-way decent sequel toProdigy. I admit that Anden was unexpectedly likable, but the love square is still terrible.That said, I predicted June would come to like Anden(view spoiler)[and give up on the assassination plot(hide spoiler)], butthere were definitely a lot of unpredictable plot twists in here as well. Not as many as inLegend, but good enough that I didn't go through with the 1-star rating I was initially leaning towards.The ending was certainly shocking and perhaps even heartbreaking for some, but not for me. If I'd actually cared for the characters, I would've felt a lot more anxious and a lot less detached about everything. Sadly,I was just about ready for the book to be over at that point.Am I interested in finding out how this latest crisis resolves itself? Absolutely. Will I be anticipating the sequel half as eagerly as I anticipatedProdigy? Not even close. It was interesting while it lasted, but overall,a very disappointing sequel. Too much teenage angst and not enoughaction, which was pretty much the one thing that madeLegendstand out amongst all the other formulaic YAs released last year.*Buddy read with Jenny. Read her reviewhere.*For more reviews, visit my blog: