My autumn witch-a-thon continues withThe Witch of Blackbird Pond, the Newberry Medal winning novel by Elizabeth George Speare. Published in 1958, I gather this is required reading in some public schools; The Bookman in Orange carries new copies, while a buddy of mine named Steve Green at McClain's Coffeehouse in Fullerton caught me reading this and experienced a bad flashback to his junior high days. I was enamored by the finesse with which Speare propels her narrative and the historical detail she wields, but the story didn't deliver on my wicked witch-a-thon expectations and suffers from issues common to the Young Adult genre.The drama centers on Katherine "Kit" Tyler, a sixteen-year-old who arrives in the Connecticut Colony in April 1687. Born and raised on a plantation in Barbados with her grandfather, Kit departs for the Colonies after his passing to live with her Aunt Rachel. Aboard theDolphinas it docks in the village of Saybrook, Kit meets two young men: Nathaniel "Nat" Eaton, son of the vessel's captain, and John Holbrook, a clergyman headed to the town of Wethersby upriver to study with a reverend doctor. When a wooden doll belonging to a put upon child named Prudence goes overboard, Kit boldly dives in to the bay to retrieve it, alarming those who have never known a woman to swim.Kit continues to make waves by revealing to Holbrook that she can read. Upon finally reaching Wethersby when the winds permit, Kit reveals to the captain that she has not sent word to her aunt of her arrival and her seven trunks must be transported to "town," which Kit is shocked to learn is little more than a church, a square and the scattered homes or fields of the Puritan villagers. Aunt Rachel initially mistakes Kit for her dead sister, but is welcomed, even when Kit notifies her aunt that she has come to live with them. Her uncle Matthew is a taciturn farmer whose word is law, and does not truck to his daughters Judith and Mercy idling the day away trying on the dresses Kit offer as presents.Her uncle regarded her with scorn. "No one in my family has any use for such frippery," he said, coldly. "Nor are we beholden on anyone's charity for our clothing.""But they are gifts," cried Kit, tears of hurt and anger springing to her eyes. "Everyone brings--""Be quiet, girl! It is time you understood one thing at the start. This will be your home, since you have no other, but you will fit yourself to our ways and do no more to interrupt the work of the household or to turn the heads of my daughters with your vanity. Now you will close your trunks and allow them to get about the work they have neglected. Rachel, take off that ridiculous thing!""Even the gloves, Father?" Judith was still rebellious. "Everyone wears gloves to Meeting.""Everything. No member of my household will appear in public in such unseemly apparel."Mercy had said no word, but now as she folded the blue shawl and laid it quietly on top of the trunk, Rachel found courage for her only protest. "Will you allow Mercy to keep the shawl?" she pleaded. "'Tis not gaudy, and 'twill keep off the draft there by the chimney."Matthew's glance moved from the shawl to his daughter's quiet eyes, and barely perceptibly the grim line of his jaw relaxed. So there was one weakness in this hard man!Kit tries her best to fit in to the Puritan village. Upon learning that her people have no servants, she tries to earn her keep carding wool, preparing meals or making soap. Bossy Judith settles on assigning her cousin corn pudding. To the more sympathetic Mercy, Kit reveals the reason she did not give her aunt prior notice is that her late grandfather's debts made her vulnerable to marriage to one of his creditors. The runaway bride turns heads by attending Sabbath Meeting in silk, the only outfit she has. Kit despairs that the boring service lasts practically all day, but garners the attention of William Ashby, a wealthy young suitor who has never seen anything like her.The stranger in a strange land begins to find her stride when she assists Mercy in teaching the dame school for young children. Helping Judith weed the onion field out by Blackbird Pond, Kit inquires about a shack out there in the tranquil meadow and is told a witch lives there, a Quaker named Hannah Tupper. When Kit improvises a lesson by involving her students in playacting a Bible scene, chaos erupts and her Puritan observers fire Kit. She flees to the meadow for solace, where she is comforted by Hannah and learns that the woman is no witch, just a misunderstood widow who's persecuted in Massachusetts for her religious beliefs. Kit befriends the old woman.Kit summons the courage to ask for her job back. William has come courting Kit, with John Holbrook putting in similar family time with Mercy, but Kit finds her thoughts turning back to Nat, who she encounters at Hannah's home delivering her goods and helping with repairs to her roof. Uncle Matthew forbids Kit from visiting the Quaker, which Kit ignores with support from her aunt. She even starts to teach her young fan Prudence how to read in secret, introducing her to Hannah and turning over lessons to the old woman. But when a fever afflicts the youth of the village, Hannah is singled out as the cause and the rebellious Kit's relationship with the woman pulls her into the witch hunt."Do you deny that on a certain day in August last, on passing the pasture of Goodman Whittlesley you cast a spell upon his cattle so that they were rooted to the ground where they stood and refused to answer his call or to give any milk on that evening?""Goodman Whittlesley, will you repeat your complaint for this assembly?"Her head reeling, Kit stood helpless as, one after the other, they rose and made their complaints, these men and women whom she scarcely recognized. The evidence rolled against her like a dark wave.One man's child had cried aloud all night that someone was sticking pins into him. Another child had seen a dark creature with horns at the foot of her bed. A woman who lived along South Road testified that one morning Kit had stopped and spoken to her child and that within ten minutes the child had fallen into a fit and lain ill for five days. Another woman testified that one afternoon last September she had been sitting in the window, sewing a jacket for her husband, when she had looked up and seen Kit walking past her house, staring up at the window in a strange manner. Whereupon, try as she would, the sleeve would never set right in the jacket. A man swore he had seen Kit and Goody Tupper dance round a fire in the meadow one moonlit night, and that a great black man, taller tan an Indian, had suddenly appeared from nowhere and joined in the dance.Elizabeth George Speare does a wonderful job of not only placing the reader in a working Puritan village in the 17th century but populating her story with compelling characters and leaving the readers with a good message. If it adhered a bit closer to history, it's a story that had the potential for great violence and tragedy, but perhaps due to its young audience, everything turns out happy in the end. I liked how Speare introduces close to a dozen characters, assigning them roles in the village and personalities that distinguish them from one another. Most of the characters remain static, while Uncle Matthew and Nat evolve the more they come to understand and appreciate Kit. The prose is poised and illustrates its setting quite effectively.What a pity every child couldn't learn to read under a willow tree, Kit thought a week later. She and Prudence sat on a cool grassy carpet. A pale green curtain of branches just brushed the grasses and threw a filigree of shadows, as delicate as the wrought silver, on the child's face. This was the third lesson. At first Prudence had been speechless. In all her short life the child had seldom seen, and certainly never held in her hands, anything so lovely as the exquisite little silver hornbook. For long moments she had been too dazed that the tiny alphabet fastened to it were made up of the same a's and b's that she had overheard through the school doorway. But now, by this third meeting, she was drinking in the precious letters so speedily that Kit knew she must soon find a primer as well.There's a lot of Drama(!) inThe Witch of Blackbird Pond, with the sister who loves the boy who loves the other sister, and parents who just don't understand. I was amused by the suggestion that teenagers were apparently running wild in the streets as far back as the first Thanksgiving. Speare handles her story with class, with language that is poised and vivid, and takes her historical subject matter seriously. That was my problem with the novel: nothing eerie or frightening occurs. Hannah Tupper is easily the most static and forgettable character in the book despite being the title character.Cover art over the years hints at different types of books. My favorite is Cover #4, from the first Dell printing in 1971. This promises a far out chiller and a thriller featuring a spooky witch haunting the countryside. I love the proportionality of its elements and the beguiling mood it conjures. Cover #1 accurately reflects the YA novel the author wrote, which despite the colonial setting and high level of writing, is in many ways a generic teen book.The Witch of Blackbird Pondis a good book, but not one I'd recommend to get the pulse racing on Halloween.