Forthe Celebrity Death Match Review Tournament,Pride and Prejudice(1) versusMary Poppins(32)NARRATOR: It is a truth universally acknowledged, that an impecunious father with four unmarried daughters is in urgent need of a magic nanny. And so it came to pass that Miss Mary Poppins took up residence in the Bennet household...Scene 1[Breakfast at the Bennets. The four sisters are laughing, talking loudly, reaching after toast etc]MARY POPPINS: Lydia, don't slouch! Slouching is generally regarded as unbecoming in a young woman. Kitty, elbows off the table. And Lizzie, Mr. Collins is here and would like to speak with you. Alone.[Everyone rapidly exits except LIZZIE and MARY POPPINS, who has unaccountably remained in her seat. Enter MR COLLINS]MR COLLINS: Ah, Miss Bennet, I am sure that what I am about to say will come as a great surprise to you, given the difference in our respective social situations. Nevertheless...LIZZIE: The answer is no.MR COLLINS: I beg your pardon, Miss Bennet, but, since I have not yet posed my question, it is clearly impossible for you to answer it. What I was about to say...LIZZIE: The answer is no, I don't want to marry you. I'd rather poison myself.MARY POPPINS: Now Lizzie, you ought to think about this more carefully.[Music starts up in background]In every job that must be done, there is an element of fun! And suddenly - snap! - the job's a game! Then every task you undertake, becomes a piece of cake, a laugh, a spree, it's very clear to see, that a spooonful of sugar makes the medicine go down, the medicine go down, the medicine go down...[A glazed, hypnotised look has descended on LIZZIE's face. Like a sleepwalker, she hears herself say]LIZZIE: In fact, Mr. Collins, I have reconsidered. I believe I will marry you after all.MR COLLINS: I am pleased to hear it! Though, I must confess that I am less certain how Lady Catherine de Bourgh will take the news.[The rest of the BENNET family, along with several animated dancing penguins, have entered and are embracing and congratulating the newly engaged couple]Scene 2[MR DARCY and MARY POPPINS. MR DARCY is pacing back and forward, evidently the prey of strong emotions]MR DARCY: I know this will sound absurd, but I felt quite discomfited when I heard that Miss Bennet had married that ridiculous clergyman. I readily admit that I found her headstrong, opinionated, objectionable in the extreme. And yet... ah, I know not what it is that I wish to say. What does one say when there is nothing to say?MARY POPPINS: Well, I'd like to point out that Miss Bennet isn't the only headstrong, opinionated, objectionable young woman in the neighborhood. And when there is nothing to say, there is one word that often comes in handy[music starts up again]... It's supercalifragilisticexpialidocious! Even though the sound of it is something quite atrocious! If you say it loud enough you'll always sound precocious! Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious![The same glazed, hypnotised look has settled on MR DARCY]MR DARCY: You have a point. Miss Poppins, will you marry me?[We suddenly notice that LIZZIE is listening through the keyhole. She has a large bottle marked "Poison" in her hand]MARY POPPINS: I will.[LIZZIE takes a good swig from the bottle, clutches her throat and keels over dead. No one notices]MR DARCY: I can hardly believe it, Mary! You will be mine... forever!MARY POPPINS: Oh no, not forever. Only until the wind changes.Match point: Mary Poppins