Well I probably want to start with the fact that I didn't give this book the 5 full stars I gave the other two books before this one. It's not a matter of liking this book less, because I didn't, I loved it just as much as the other two, only this one had some minor mishap that made it slightly less appealing.For starters the book had a relatively slower pace than the other two, and when it's a matter of comparison, this point stands out in an authors style of writing. This slow pace in turn lengthened the book to about 500 something pages. Now under normal circumstances I would have relished the vivid detailing of the book, however, in this case it wasn't as mesmerizing. This was mostly because we are already familiar with the ideas and settings of this story as a whole. This was a huge deal for me, because slow pace and a long way to go, make me bored. Many parts of the book were so full of intrigue I simply couldn't stop, but at other times the feeling disappeared and was replaced by a sort of detachment.But that makes an unfair complaint, because compared to so many books, this one is so great. The main issue for me was that its predecessors were so good that the slight difference in this book made a huge difference for me!So now to all the great things about this book. First of all it was so entertaining! All the characters, all the plotting and moving and incredible amounts of action. I think I was still majorly hooked on scarlet and wolf, so all through out the book, I was just waiting for the parts that wolf and Scarlett story is told. I also have a peculiar yet healthy curiosity about princess winter, I mean like literally not being able to wait to see what her story is. So yes, that indirectly means I'm so looking forward to the fourth installment.I'm going to emphasize the negativity that I initiated this review with is only to explain the one missing star in my rating, because otherwise I did love this book, and would recommend it to everyone who liked the previous two.