It's anothing really happens in this underwhelming, anti-climactic book3 stars.The writing is still solid and I enjoy the first half of the book, I also take small comfort that no one has been engaging in silly romance while running for their lives. But Ms. Armstrong seems to forget her story and all of the suspense and build-ups need to reach an actualclimaxbefore the book comes to an end in order to satisfy her readers.When reading this second book of The Darkest Power trilogy, I felt like I was watching a poorly plotted, badly made horror movie---it's so badly made that I never feel frightened by any of the supposedly scary and/or intensive scenes done by Ms. Armstrong. Okay, the kids are now on the run from the bad guys and they got into one difficult situation after another, but it never feels real to me and I never feel they were in any real trouble; not even when they were hunted by a group of armed villains in a dark wood.What a letdown, Ms. Armstrong. I'm not impressed. To be honest, by the last 100 pages I was simply turning pages just to get the whole thing over with.I honestly think The Awakening would better off be a movie instead of a novel. At least the chasing scenes and the fight scenes would have been better and more intensive than being a bunch of uninspiring written texts.Our main girl Chloe is also a major letdown here, by now she realizes she can raise the deads at will, but what had she ever done with her power?Nothing.We are being led to think that Chloe is about to raise hell in this book, but it's a lie. Instead Chloe barely did anything other than running away and constantly being rescued by the two main boys. Hell, she didn't use her power as a mean of self defend when she and her friends were in danger.What a huge disappointment.Had Chloe ever been struggling to keep her power under control? Did she keep seeing ghosts and be scared out of her mind? Did the creepiness and darkness from the realm of death affect her sanity and taint her goodness? Had she ever been forced to use her power to hurt people and then regret it later?Nothing.You see, Chloe had gone through no soul-reaching when she was supposed to be 'struggling' to come to term with her power. Instead she reacted to the entire situation as emotional as a piece of wood.And the ending. My goodness, it must be one of the most underwhelming ending I had ever seen in a while.The Awakening really does have its moments and it obviously also has its potential, but it simply fails to live up to its promise.