UnlikeGraceling,Firedoesn't get better upon rereading.The core of my issues with it remains the same, specifically Cashore's nontraditional approach to marriage and women's empowerment. I'll elaborate on it later. But besides that, this time this book is just boring. I think I was pretty generous to giveFire3.5 stars 2 years ago. I now feel it deserves at least 1 star less. Too much navel-gazing, too much contemplating and whining and crying on Fire's part without enough action and romance to balance things out, too much talk of periods and cramps. Plus, the nature of Fire's power is such that even the most climactic part of the novel comes off as an over-complicated non-event.I still think there is an improvement in Cashore's writing in terms of world-building. But, after readingMegan Whalen Turner's novels that were, undoubtedly, an inspiration to Cashore,Firepales in comparison. The intrigues, the politics of it are only weak shadows of those of Attolia.And now onto the main concerns. I think it's certainly brave of an author to create novels where heroines are different from the so-called norm. Cashore writes young women craving full independence, undesiring of long-term partners and children. That's fine. But I can't help but be disappointed in how all women are portrayed inFire. They all are not exactly immoral, but definitely lacking in scruples, dignity and caution. They cheat, the sleep with everyone around, they get pregnant when they have resources not to, they don't care if they are cheated on, they, to me, seem to think they don't deserve love, monogamy or at least respect. The men are no better, they are indiscriminately cheaters, philanderers and rapists. I'll be hard-pressed to find even one healthy, committed relationship between a man and a woman in this book, a relationship where participants are equal partners in all decisions, including those concerning procreation. Call me old-fashioned, but I believe a man should have a say in the decisions about child-bearing as well.As a result,Fireis full to the brim with illegitimate children (literally, almost everyone in the book is a bastard or a result of a rape) and excessive amount of casual, adulterous and forced sex. It's a soap opera!And it's boring and would have benefited from some tightening up.I don't think I'll be readingFireagain.