There is this big jerk of a kid that is an animal or monster torturer in the beginning of the book. Luckily, he's only in a little bit of the book toward the end. I wanted to be a giant to step on his sorry arse!Moving on . . .I have mixed feelings about this book so I'm just going to go with I liked it but didn't love it. And there is nothing wrong with that.Let me put up my spoilers sign before I forget. Sigh. . . . .So, I was thinking Archer was going to be my love interest in the book until. . .1. He's all in Fire's business when she talks to any of the guards.2. He's always harassing her to marry him.3. He tells Fire he will quit sleeping around if she would just marry him.DUDE! I WOULD DROP-KICK YOU OFF THE ROOF! And Fire too for that matter for still sleeping with him!But, I digress.It took me a minute to like Brigan. He was a jerk a bit at first but for good reasons. Then he started to fall in love with Fire and she with him. I was hoping there was going to be a big ole wedding but there wasn't unless I missed it while stomping on people and drop-kicking people of roofs. &lt;--- that was a big ole run on sentenceBrigan had a sweet little girl named Hanna that I loved too.Fire met Brigan and King Nash and other peeps when she journeyed from her home with Archer to meet everyone and do some stuff.Fire lived in her own house and Archer and his father, Lord Brocker in the other house. They protected each other.Anyway, all kinds of things went down and war is brewing and spies everywhere trying to kill everyone. Fire can read minds and change peoples minds or destroy them if she wants. She's part monster. &lt;--- Heh! I'm not even explaining all of that, you can read the book. This does make men fall at her feet with desire and rape on their minds! I mean, really? She is also attacked by other monster animals because they desire her blood. Thus, we get to read continually in the book about her damn time of the month and how they had to kill extra raptor monsters to keep her safe. I have never heard about a woman's period so much in my life!I did like Fire though even with the few faults she had and I loved her horse, Small. He was a great horse and friend to her.So there was a lot of people coming and going and fighting and some evil peeps killed someone that I didn't want to die even if they made me mad. There were several attempts on Fire's life.Overall I liked the book and some of the characters. I did love Fire's guards, Musa and Mila. They were good women guards that ended up as friends too. There were a few other people I liked too.So, onto the next book and hopefully it will be good too. I like that these are stand alone books. I liked Graceling better than this one, lets see what I think about Bitterblue =)MY BLOG:Melissa Martin's Reading List