fortunately, jenn awwww yeeaahhhh is literally half my size. go on - look at my shoulders - i am like a mighty moose to her delicate deer:there is no way she can make good on that threat.so i am just going to say it: i liked this book less than i likedgraceling.bring it, tiny creature.and from a critical standpoint, there is nothing wrong with this book. it has a fine story arc, good character development, a good array of both descriptive and action sequences - i would say that the pacing is a little slower than ingracelingand can get bogged down in a bit too much detail, but that's not necessarily a deal-breaker, although unusual for YA lit.so my gripe is woefully lowbrow. ready? i just could never get into thecharacter. the idea of mind control is awesome, and this book makes important moral points about its use, but i don't want to read YA philosophy books, i wanna read about girl power and magic and murderous justice!(although, for the teens, also good points about pregnancy - if you can't live with the results, take precautions. pleeeease stop making babies - theteen momphenomenon where girls are getting knocked up just to be on teevee is gross)but it doesn't have the kickass factor ofgraceling- this is all chilly analytical restraint and good judgment and guardedness. it is like watching someone play chess. you have to respect the skill involved, but really, i would rather be watchinghttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KFV0Uv...i find her emotional responses bland - the man she loves beds every woman in his path, and she shrugs it off without jealousy. not only can i not relate to this, but i cannot respect it.but then, vengeance runs deep in me.and i don't need to fall in love with my characters - i am all about appreciating the antihero, but i have to be able, at least, to respect them and their path. self-sacrifice is great and all, but you're a superfine babe with the power of mind control - seriously. after a point, the mind control becomes irrelevant, right??she needs no additional powers.but this is all sound und fury und nonsense. for whatever reason, i just was not able to get into this book, despite several really cool scenes. part of it was trying to fit this world into the previous book: so this world has "monsters" but not "gracelings" but why?? and how do they really differ? part of it was the grotesque nature of all the male characters: grope-y king, slutty archer, sadist dad, reading the minds of a million would-be rapists. part of it was the stifling of a beautiful, powerful butterfly under this overdeveloped guilt for things not her fault. flaunt that shit - you aren't your daddy just because you are gorgeous. good on you for being a clara barton there for a while, but take down that hair, dollface. drop it like it's hot etc etc.do we need another sassy gay friend intervention?so - yeah - not at all painful to read, but it is no threat to my still-monogamous relationship withAshfall.now i run away, having learned lessons from goliath....come to my blog!