3.5 /5 stars"Sometimes people are beautiful.Not in looks.Not in what they say.Just in what they are."Let me just begin this review by saying that I Am the Messenger is not The Book Thief. As enjoyable as it was, it is nowhere near as incredible as The Book Thief was. But did I really care? No. Markus Zusak has such a way with words. He makes you feel the story, and the words, as if they were tangible things, and I love that. The words never feel empty, never like nothing more than ink on a page. Anyone who can do that has my respect."'He's left town and hasn't come back. I'm not sure if he ever will.''Does he deserve to?''What'sdeservegot to do with anything? Who the hell am I to decide, Audrey?'"I was still emotionally impacted by this book, don't get me wrong. I didn't sob like I did in The Book Thief, but I did go from sad, to happy, to melancholy, to laughing in a matter of thirty pages."Taxi driver. Local loser. Cornerstone of mediocrity. Sexual midget. Pathetic cardplayer. And now weird-shit magnet on top of it.Admit it.It's not a bad list I'm building up."I don't know what it is about his books that make me feel so many things, but damn.Damn."I got hearts, and for some reason, this feels the most dangerous of them all. People die of broken hearts. They have heart attacks. And it's the heart that hurts most when things go wrong and fall apart."I have a love-hate relationship with the ending. It makes sense, but I was disappointed in how it all wrapped up. Honestly, when I finished the book, I threw it down onto my bed, and left the room.I understand why Zusak ended it the way he did, and I didn't entirely hate it, but I just wantedmore. More of an explanation, more of a conclusion. I probably would've given this a solid four stars, had that had happened.I would still recommend this book, regardless of the little things I disliked. It's book that should be read because of its message."'You are the epitome of ordinariness, Ed.' He looks at me seriously. 'And if a guy like you can stand up and do what you did for all those people, well, maybe everyone can.' He becomes intense now. Emotional. This is everything. 'Maybe evenIcan...'"