2.5 Stars!!So here I begin my rant. I am pissed after reading this book because it merely came upto 10% of what I was expecting it to be.. So this is me going on about it in biker language.Ok, So let me begin with a little good first, The sex was HOT, Like seriously good and HOT! But it was SO fucking clingy andI dont even have the right words to say how effing clingy it wasIt was so like I need to fuck you because I am an insecure person, for both of them. It was them fucking, not making love.. There was steam and sizzle, but not a single ounce of the chemistry that they had in the first book.WHAT THE FUCK was with chapter 1-13.. I could have fit that shit into 2chapters. Seriously? I didn't know one could drag shit like that for 13 bloody chapters.. It pissed the living hell out of me, 13 chapters of the same repeated crap. SAME. BLOODY. CRAP.The last 4-5chapters were nice, thats what I was expecting from the whole book, So the 2.5 Stars the book has gotten from me, its ONLY FOR THE LAST FEW CHAPTERS. There was still absolutely NO details what so ever about Gideon and his abuse. It was like 2pages. 2bloody pages!!! *pissed*Seriously Eva, Grow a spine and Gideon, you stupid idiotic fool! I love you but damn boy did you piss the shit out of me in this book..I feel pretty pissed as I'm reading the book.. 35% into the book and the same drama is on about how Gideon isn't telling Eva anything and how's she's getting pissed and asking him questions and he is still not telling her anything and how he is using sex to get around the questions she is asking him and how they are insecure and want to be close to each other even though he is very secretive and she is always pissed...75% into the book and its the SAME crap! SAME. Do you know how frustrating it is? Waiting for a book for months hoping to get a load of stuff out of it and what do we get? Nothing.After 75% did the book pick up, gave us a little tiny bit of information.The book barely stirred any emotions inside be appart from angry.I know I expected a lot from this book, but hell.. it didn't even live up to 10% of Bared to You.I could have fitted this whole book into like 5chapters of Entwined with You. Hate it how authors now a days want to drag shit out. I mean.. YES we love detailed stuff, and we do like out books moderately long but this is like pushing it a little too far by unnecessarily dragging stuff out.Clingy non chemistry sex(fucking) not love making is so not a turn on for me. So this book was a total BOO for me.I just hope Entwined with You is as good as Bared to You and nothing like this book.Look down and see how bad I've waited for this book. I am utterly disappointed. :(