Oh my god, I just don't know what to say about this book. I seriously considered leaving the rating blank becauseThe Sea of Tranquilityisn't something that can easily be summed up in stars, my feelings for it are much more complex than that. I do realise that I'm pretty much the only person in the universe who gave this less than 4 stars (and most gave it 5) and there are a number of reasons, but I'll get to those in a minute. But it's important to know that 3 stars isn't really accurate at all. On goodreads, 3 stars means "I liked it" and I think I can say that there were no parts of this book that fit that description: I either loved it or was annoyed by it. There were 5-star bits and there were 1-star bits and somehow my rating has fallen somewhere in the middle.Let me tell you what I loved.This book is brimming with emotion. It's an intense, painful read about two complicated individuals who are both haunted by their pasts and find some level of solace in each other. There were parts that were so equally beautiful and painful that I was hanging on every word, propelled along by Millay's gorgeous writing and often hilarious dialogue. Nastya is easy to love, from her original snarkiness that should have you laughing to the darker sides of her character that will draw you in and make you need to know her secrets. And, boy, does she have secrets. I also quite liked reading about her obsession with names and their meanings, even though it was incredibly cheesy that the love interest's name - Josh - meanssalvation. Cue eye roll.I think one of the best bits of this novel, though, was Drew. He was the only character who surprised me, the one who was introduced as a typical lecherous jerk and developed into something much more real and entirely lovable. I really love it when characters turn out to be more interesting than I expected them to be and Drew definitely delivered on that front. Plus, he is the source of some much-needed comic relief in this rather dark story, providing many laughs and memorable moments.But...This is a standard contemporary YA romance. With standard contemporary YA romance characters who have standard contemporary YA romance angst-filled issues. Which I guess is absolutely fine if you find yourself returning to this genre again and again in search of the same goods you got last time. In fact, this novel is perfect for fans ofPushing the Limits(another book I felt conflicted about), they offer me some basic entertainment but they follow the same pattern and are completely predictable. They use stereotypes for characters (except, like I said, Drew), theyalwaysfeature issue-ridden protagonists who need saving, the relationships always evolve through the same cycle of doubt, jealousy and general angst. Oh, and now attempted rape scenes seem to be a requirement as well.Even though I did grow to like Josh more towards the end, I had a lot of trouble with his character to start with and I never fully recovered from it. In some ways, he reminded me of Ethan fromBeautiful Creaturesin that he saw himself (and eventually Nastya too) as being morally above everyone else. He is more critical of himself as the novel progresses but I found myself really annoyed at him for turning his nose up at the "vapid, cute and popular" girls who flirt with guys. The usual stereotypes are employed here, using the blonde, pretty and popular girl as an unnecessarily mean airhead. She's even called "pretty in an obvious way"... what does that even mean? And that's such a horrible, bitchy comment. Josh even comments on how morally superior he is to Drew by saying "I don't think I'd be desperate enough to sink to Drew's level". This is why I found it really hard to care about the guy. Nastya, of course, doesn't try to hook up with all the hot guys so she is also a morally superior being in Josh's eyes. For a further example, see my status update:http://www.goodreads.com/user_status/...On top of that, it's all just a little too cheesy for me at times - an odd thing to say for a book that is simultaneously so dark - but one thing I really can't stand in romance novels is pet names. I find it gross, actually. And in this Josh always calls Nastya "sunshine" and I just do not think it's cute. I know some readers will and that's great, but I just... ugh *vomits* And back to the whole saving thing, Josh even gets in this line that I don't think I could physically make my vocal cords say out loud: "every day you save me". This is obviously a matter of taste and perhaps your eyes are filling up right now when you read that. If so, this is the book for you, but it doesn't do it for me. I think it even takes something away from the very real emotion when they say something that's straight out of your standard romcom. But, to end on one last positive, Millay writes sex scenes that are handled expertly, honestly and gave me a few tugs on the old heartstrings. This book ticks the boxes at both ends of the scale for me, but it will definitely be your new favourite if you love contemporary romance.