Man, it was good to read this again. I haven't read it in years. My memories of its contents were so hazy I couldn't even remember Kristina's middle name. Or the name of the guy that(view spoiler)[raped her(hide spoiler)].Ellen Hopkins is one of those authors whose books you can only read so many of at a time before they all start blending together into one loosely incoherent story, because they all sort of deal with the same topics (they're all about drugs and sex and naughty stuff teens shouldn't be doing). That mistake was one I did the first go-round Hopkins-style, and one I'm not going to make again. This go-round, I'm only reading the books in this trilogy, which are CRANK, GLASS, and FALLOUT. I'm not going to re-read IMPULSE, IDENTICAL, BURNED (although I'm so tempted because that's my favorite of them all), or TRICKS. I'm just going to read these three and be done.So, if you want these stories to be somewhat memorable for yourself, I recommend savoring them slowly and getting a good feel for what they have to offer individually, not reading them all and making the mistake I did, not being able to remember anything but the book's topic.CRANK should've been a five-star read. It could've been a five-star read. It wasn't a five-star read, but merely a three-star read, because something about it was missing.Hmm . . . I dunno. Maybe that missing thing was an INTERESTING, VARIED PLOT!Here. Let me give you the run-down on CRANK's plot.[image error]Except maybe more like "Get High, Sleep, Feel Anxious to Get High Again, Repeat!"The effort put into trying to keep the plot varied and interesting was a fail that turned out to be something like this:In words, it goes like this:Kristina moves.Kristina gets high with her dad.Kristina moves back to Reno.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.(view spoiler)[ Kristina gets raped.(hide spoiler)]Something different! *gasp*Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Kristina gets high.Put that on repeat about 50x, and you'll be good.A GIANT, CORROSIVE FAIL.One thing I love about Hopkins' writing, though, is how inventive and beautiful some of the poetry-style entries are. They're not all about Kristina/Bree. No. Some of them are about just "the monster" (meth) in general, and they describe what it feels like to be on it, something you won't get in that enormous detail anywhere else. And, I know, it is written in verse, so it's expected to be beautiful. And it was.The negative side to Hopkins' style of writing in verse is that because the formatting has to be a specific way, the length of the sentences can be greatly reduced, sometimes down to even a single word per sentence, which may go on for a whole page without leave. This makes for what seems like an easy read (even though, in all reality, it wasn't that easy), and it can be misleading.CRANK was a very inventive and very true account about what drugs can do to a person's otherwise perfect life. It doesn't seem preachy, but at the same time, it sounds informative and gripping.