I listened to this on audio, so pardon any misspellings!Okay, this is going to be a complicated review. In my opinion, Christy is a good book, just maybe not for all audiences. I'm giving it a solid 3.5 stars for "didn't-love-didn't-hate-but-liked-it-more-than-3 stars-but-not-quite-4-stars". There were things I liked and things I didn't like and things that simply were. Things that were uplifting and things that were depressing. I liked Christy herself for the most part. She was lively, and an entertaining narrator, making me smile several times with her reactions to things. It was good to watch her grow and mature, both emotionally, and spiritually, her faith journey being especially touching. The thing I disliked about her was her romantic journey. She was probably the most immature in that area, and while it wasn't at all like modern day YA in which it's often "get physical first and ask questions later," she still had that immature attitude of, "If I'm not in love with him, then why do I have all teh tingly feelings when he kisses me?" Just guessing here, but that might be...wait for it...hormones, maybe? Love should be so much more than physical attraction and tingles, dear. I also really didn't like her main love interest hardly at all, which brings me to my next point.David, her love interest, didn't seem like a bad guy at first, but the more she got to know him the more I disliked him. First of all, when she started trying to take small steps of faith to help the community, he put her down and acted like this wasn't a response from God, this was just a happy happening. Though not always, he could also be condescending towards her when she asked questions for which he didn't have answers. And finally, the man was in the ministry, not because he felt God was calling him to be there and he genuinely wanted to help the people of Cutter Gap, but rather, he was there because other people thought the ministry would suit him, other people had assigned him to Cutter Gap, and he was basically just there to do a job he was assigned to do, with no real love for the people. On top of that, he would preach fiery sermons to the people about how they needed to change their ways, using Scripture to back himself up, and then we find out that he doesn't even believe everything in the Bible, and is so unsure of his own faith that when Christy starts asking him questions about what he believes and why, he gets all defensive and condescending saying she's "diving into deep theological waters" and he "doesn't want to confuse her". Um...who was the one who was just saying how unsure he was about the existence of heaven, Jesus' miracles being true miracles, etc. and keeps referring to debates back at the theological seminary rather than his own solid beliefs You, not her. And that wasn't the only thing he was condescending to her about. To give Christy credit, she did pick up on these issues and it did cause her to hesitate, but in my opinion, it took her way too long to put the brakes on the relationship. If it were me, he would have been dropped like a hot potato the minute he proposed. To give David credit, he too came to realize his shortcomings by the end and decided to take his life in a different direction.Then there was the other love interest: Dr. McNeill. To be honest, I was pretty neutral about him throughout most of the book. I never thought he seemed as arrogant as Christy thought he was at first, though he did have a strong personality. And while I didn't agree with what he believed, at least he knew WHY he believed it, unlike David. My main issue with the idea of Christy and him together was the contrast of his atheism with her growing faith, because I do feel that people who are considering a relationship, much less marriage, need to be in a similar place with their faith or you're opening up room for conflict that doesn't have to be there. However, that contrast changed by the end (albeit, last minute!) at which point I was okay with the idea.A character I was not neutral about was Miss Alice, who may have been my favorite side character in the whole story. She was a woman of integrity and strong, unwavering faith, who made for an excellent mentor and friend for Christy and others, and her personal story held some interesting surprises.There were other likable side characters as well, Fairlight and Ruby May coming to mind first. I also liked several of the school children and enjoyed reading about Christy's school times in general and the difference she made in her student's lives by actively showing love to them even when it was difficult. As for the side characters I felt neutral about, I still felt that they were all characterized well and unique enough that I never got confused about them, and it was interesting to see them function as a community.For the story itself, as I said at the start, it's a good story, but not necessarily suitable for all readers, due both to differences in personal taste, and for younger readers, a little bit of content issues. It could be very uplifting seeing Christy's accomplishments and the sweet personal connections she made with individuals in the community, and ultimately, the change she brings to the community is the heart and point of the story. At the same time, the story didn't pull punches when it came to thematic elements and there were a number of things that happened that could be considered depressing, and some things that aren't appropriate for readers of all ages. The mountain community lived in desperate poverty and ignorance, and just like back in the day when their ancestors lived in Scotland, there was little in the way of traditional law enforcement, and family feuds and acts of revenge that sometimes resulted in murder were the norm. There were other illegal acts as well, like the making and selling of illegal moonshine, the discovery of which could also lead to murder. This is all historically accurate, and in all reality my own Appalachian ancestors (nearly all of them!) probably experienced some form of this sort of poverty and ignorance in their lifetimes, so that was an interesting glance back in time for me. It's just not one of the happier historical accuracies to base a story upon, and not everyone will find it enjoyable, even when taking the more uplifting moments into consideration.On top of this, there were medical things that some could find icky. (One time in particular, I was listening while eating breakfast to the part where one character gets double pneumonia and...ugh...I wish I hadn't.) There was only one doctor for the entire community, though the people from the mission tried to help as much as they could, and some descriptions of illness and one surgery, which I'll cover in further detail in the content section of this review, while not graphic to an extreme, could be more than some people want to read, especially as nearly the entire last third of the book centers around an epidemic of typhoid in the community, and that is one nasty disease that, sadly, did cause a number of deaths, thus adding to the depressing depressingness.And finally, and probably the most problematic were a mention of rape and the discovery that rape is part of the backstory of one prominent side character. When this character made this revelation, this was probably the one place where I thought a description went farther than it should have. The sex act was not described, but the character did mention where the wicked, evil, DESPICABLE excuse for humanity initially touched her, and I thought she should not have included this detail as it went from the simple knowledge that he touched her inappropriately to, okay, now we're picturing *where* he touched her, and that's not something that needs to be pictured, especially as the mere knowledge that it happened was sickening enough to begin with. I will also address this further in the content section.Now, having said that^ I will make note that hearing about the positive way that the community supported this character when they found out what happened was very touching and uplifting. The individual's parents and the Quaker community, one older woman in particular, rallied around her and protected her from gossip, ensuring that she and the child felt loved, not rejected. Her experience also taught them that they've been so focused on their teachings about the "inner light" that they've neglected other things such as educating their girl children about natural bodily acts like sex so they are not ignorant lambs among wolves if an evil person was to come into the community again with the intention of taking advantage of them. They also made changes related to a number of other things like how they had some ideas about modern day revelations from God but were actually considering rather silly things like indigestion or bodily aches as messages from God. So they enacted change so there would be checks for such things.So, all things considered, Christy is a complex book. I can see why those who have loved it over the years loved it, as it is very uplifting in some ways and minus a little confusing moment, I liked the way it ended. At the same time it is depressing in places, and with the hatred, revenge, icky medical descriptions, and one instance of a remembered rape, I was unable to completely fall in love with it, hence my rating of 3.5. Still, there is definitely a reason this is a classic, and I think the right audience will enjoy it very much.Content for those who want to know:Due to the following content, particularly the part that touches on rape, I would not personally recommend this book for anyone under the age of 16, maybe older depending on the individual.Violence:There are many instances of violence in this book, though generally, it is not described.As stated in my review, the part of the Appalachias where the story happens is so isolated there is not a lot in the way of traditional law enforcement and we discover that even when the law is enforced the courts can be biased because families plot and plan to get a certain people elected as judge. Therefore, families get in feuds and may even shoot each other and sometimes get away with it. Many don't seem to think twice about threatening others with guns and knives. One Quaker woman who is normally against violence even taught herself to shoot better than the men just so they would respect her enough to listen to her when she tries to act as peacemaker. (We never actually see her have to use a gun during the story.)Early on in the story an in-home surgery happens that will involve the need to drill a hole in a man's skull to relieve pressure, but Christy walks out before it starts.Christy sees the remnants of an animal that was killed by another animal. Blood and fur on the ground described briefly. One character recalls how another character was raised to have no respect for animal life and would often kill animals, not for food or fur, but just simply for the sake of killing, and was often unmerciful about it. She recalls how he broke the leg of a baby deer, just because he could, and was about to bash its head in, but she stopped him.Miss Alice makes brief mentions of having met a crippled child who was later beaten and raped and died, and once walking into a house to discover an insane man had hung his wife. Neither of these things are described any more than what I said here. (Note: Miss Alice tells Christy these things to explain to her that yes, she will run into some great evils being committed in this region, but she believes God has placed the two of them there to use them as tools to bring that evil to an end.)A baby dies and it turns out it was from internal injuries caused by something the mother did out of ignorance and superstition to try to cure what she thought was wrong. The babys' dead body is briefly described, but there is no external injury, so it's not icky just very sad.Brief discussion of Indian scalping, how some pioneer doctor's helped those who survived a scalping via a procedure in which a hole is bored into the skull. This makes Christy wish her imagination were not so vivid.Some pranks the older boys play in the classroom have potential for physical harm. A rock is wrapped in cloth to look like a ball and thrown at a young girl's head. She is bruised but otherwise okay. Hot marbles are left on the floor with the intention that Christy will pick them up and get burned. (She's warned ahead of time.) A much later prank involves someone putting something in the school furnace(?)that spits out sparks when Christy goes to stoke the fire. Holes are burned in her dress and her neck is burned enough to raise a blister.An older boy beats a younger boy unconscious. The beating is only barely described by the witnesses. (We later discover the reason for the beating is because the younger boy got too close to the place where a bunch of moonshine was being hidden.)Christy acts as assistant during one surgery on a child. It is generally not described but there is brief mention of a large pocket of puss caused by infection.Sexual:An older boy in Christy' s class uses a written assignment to tell her he has trouble focusing on lessons because she's so pretty. (This is the only instance, and nothing ever comes of his supposed attraction to her.)Some non-described kisses on the cheek, lips, and eyelids at varying times.When Christy is preparing the dead baby's body for the "laying out" some men come in to see the baby and they are drunk. Christy notices one of them staring at her and then winking to his companions. She ignores it. But the man of the house is concerned enough about the drunks that when he walks the ladies back to the mission he brings his gun.Later we discover that the man^ actually didn't bring his gun because of the drunks, he brought it because some strange men no one knew had followed Christy out there. David warns her not to leave the mission without him again at least not until they find out who the men are.Some men (most likely drunk) try to break into the house where Christy and two other women are staying by themselves. The women end up having to barricade the doors and look for things to use as weapons because the men are out there looking to possibly kill a man they think is staying in the same house (he isn't) and whether or not they get to the man, they imply they might take advantage of the women as well, shouting through the door things like, "We don't want to hurt ye we just want to 'enjoy' ye," and offering the women alcohol that is probably moonshine. The women can hear them discussing which man gets which woman. The men never get in, though, and are eventually chased off by a sudden rain storm.In the last third of the story Miss Alice reveals to Christy that she was raped as a teenager. It is not described in extreme or titillating detail, but enough is described that it's not appropriate for younger readers (and could possibly be a trigger for those who have experienced this horrible thing), so I'm going to put this is spoiler code.(view spoiler)[Miss Alice says her parents didn't talk to her about the act of sex in any way and an evil, evil man used this nievete to his advantage, twisting passages from God's Word to make it seem like physical touch would get you to some special spiritual plane. Once he had her believing these lies she recalls that he had her take her clothes off and touched her breasts and thighs and then raped her. She mentions him being on top of her and her realizing too late that what he was doing to her was wrong and trying to fight him off and failing. She says by the time it was over she was crumpled on the floor in tears and he didn't care, even had dinner with the family that evening and acted like nothing had happened at all.(hide spoiler)]Miss Alice was so ignorant about the act of sex she didn't even have the words to tell her parents what happened until she realized she was pregnant (pregnancy was something she knew about because of raising farm animals, she just didn't know what caused it) and was able to tell them about that. Miss Alice says a sadness fell on her family worse than if they were mourning for a death. Unfortunately, by that time, the evil, wicked, excuse for humanity who did that to her had gone back to England, and the family couldn't find him in order to bring him to justice.There's a wedding ceremony with some rather old traditions, including "putting the bride to bed" smack in the middle of the festivities. The loft where they take the bride and groom is directly above where the dancing is happening and Christy is embarrassed to hear "bawdy" noises coming from up there.Language:Terms like "devil take ye" and "swear" are about as close to actual swearing that is heard. There's mention of Christy hearing some drunk men use swears so raw she hasn't heard most of the words before.Other:A boy is said to have been born "half witted" and has epilepsy. He is only half dressed (though the essential areas are covered Christy can tell he is wearing nothing under the long sweater) speaks in grunts, drools, amd smells very bad. Christy is so upset about him that she later gets sick to her stomach and it's implied (not described) that she vomits. When Christy tells Miss Alice where she went that it upset her so much Miss Alice understands and says "that's the worst place of all."The majority of the descriptions of illness come in the last third of the book where many people fell ill and dying from typhoid. Victims of the disease have high temperatures, swollen, furry tongues, delirium, diarrhea, and Christy personally tends to several of these people and has to clean them up and realizes she'll never forget the distinctive stench. One of the worst descriptions was when someone who had typhoid also got double pneumonia and finally, after much treatment, coughed up whole bunch of phlegm and pus.Sadly, some people we've come to know during the story die of the typhoid.People drink and get drunk, mostly on illegal moonshine.Spiritual:Miss Alice is a strong Christian woman trying to reach out to the Appalachian folks, and her fellows in the mission house.Christy spends much of the story grappling with topics of faith and figuring out what she believes but by the end, comes to a much stronger faith of her own.The people living in the mountains have a rather backward and works-based idea of the Christian faith. Among other things, they think anything that makes you too happy is probably sinful, and that even if you're a believer you've got to constantly worry about "backsliding" and ending up in hellfire anyway. There's also big emphasis during funerals on preaching of hellfire and damnation in order to try to scare people into repentance. (This is a tradition David refuses to carry on when he performs funerals.)As stated, David, despite being a minister, doesn't seem sure of all his beliefs and actually comes to realize this by the end of the story and starts looking at doing something else with his life.Right at the end of the book someone nearly dies and we're given a glimpse of heaven where there is much bright, beautiful light, radiating love, green grassy fields, flowers, streams, and some characters who were believers and passed on earlier in the book.