I'm a fan of Stephen King's earlier works and a lot of the classic movie adaptations. I wouldn't say I'm a superfan, but since I am working on changing my status ofaspiring writertopublished author, I can use all the help I can get, especially from someone as prolific and universally read as he.We all know King is a master storyteller. So it's not surprising that for much of this book, he's doing just that. The first big chunk of this book is his "C.V." - a charming memoir of his childhood when the love for writing germinated and was encouraged by his single mother, his teenage years when he collected rejection slips from magazines, his young married life when he balanced teaching, writing, fatherhood and drinking. And then his literary breakthrough, withCarrie. After the "Toolbox" and "On Writing" sections he returns again to his story, recounting the time in 1999 when he got (almost fatally) hit by a weirdo driving a van.What I liked* he is so passionate about "the craft"* he's pretty encouraging and positive - lots of quotable quotes* he writes in a humble, humorous, accessible style* we learn a lot about his journey as a writer* he gives so much credit to his wife, Tabitha* he uses many examples to illustrate points using his own work* he considers lots of reading to be essential (and there are two great book lists at the end - I just love book lists!)Things I didn't really like* his section on the writer's toolbox was really short, with a lot of emphasis on concepts that seem a bit basic (nix on adverbs, avoid passive voice) for serious writers* he's really specific about certain things (for example, in dialogueonlyuse 'he said' or 'she said'), which I think is limiting* he's really NOT specific about most big things (this is my main disappointment with the book). Stories for him come "quite literally from nowhere", are likened to "fossils" that just need to be dug out of the ground. I have no doubt this is true for him, but uh, thanks. I'll just go and dig the fossil, and boom, my story is complete. He mentions that he doesn't plan how his books go, they just evolve with a mind of their own. He doesn't think about symbolism, it just shows up. He doesn't think about theme, but notices that it's there after the fact. Again, I'm sure it's true - I am not going to dispute the magic involved in writing. But if it's pretty muchallmagic, then why write a book about it?? Actually, he does mention that any decent writer reading this book doesn't really need it, or any other book of its kind. He's not into 'how to', and isn't a fan of writing workshops or courses either (hm).Anyway, I guess what I'm trying to say is I was really hoping to hear morepracticalwriting advice about structure, what makes a great story, how to create tension, memorable characters, etc and I came up somewhat lacking. That isn't what this book is setting out to do.Still, everything this guy says has worked for him, tremendously (oops! there's a pesky adverb!), and I am inspired by his deep commitment to, and joy through, the craft.You must not come lightly to the blank page.3.5 stars