This is a very hard book to rate. I'm going with three and a half stars with caveats for some readers. Parts of it were five star brilliant. The rhythm and pattern of Welsh speech, conversation and story telling is rendered into English with a deft and often humorous touch. The descriptions of Wales and the countryside were exquisite and the sense of place and time so intense and immediate that I was often completely transported. The best parts are in the first half of the book as a man looks back at his childhood in a once-green valley."I will say it was lovely, because it was so green and fresh and clean, with wind from off the fields and dews from the mountain. The river was not very wide...but so clear that you would see every inch of rock through the bubbling water, and so full of fish that nobody though of using a rod. My father taught me to tickle trout up on the flat rock down by Mrs Tom Jenkins'."As the industrial revolution transformed Britain, the coal-mining regions of South Wales fairly basked in prosperity. And food in plenty."There is good dripping toast is by the fire in the evening. Good jelly dripping and crusty, home-baked bread, with the mealy savour of ripe wheat roundly in your mouth and under your teeth, roasted sweet and crisp and deep brown, and covered with little pockets where the dripping will hide and melt and shine in the light, deep down inside, ready to run when your teeth bite in."I put on five pounds reading that....I loved the many characters and scenes of village life. Huw (the narrator) and his struggles with rheumatic fever are moving and filled with warm insight. Mining is a way of life here, and there is pride in the skill of the work and in the role Wales plays in Britain's growing power.As Huw matures the tone of the book darkens. Labor and management conflicts come to the valley and its mines and Huw's family is drawn into disputes that threaten to tear father from son, brother from brother.The history lesson was terrific and an excellent complement to Elizabeth Gaskell's brilliantNorth and South, as well as my non-fiction reads on industrialization and populist and socialist movements in Britain and the U.S.As Huw grows, so does the vast heap of mine tailings--slag mountains that tower over the town, pressing in relentlessly on his home, the refuge that he and his family love so well. In 1966 one of these coal-tip mountains collapsed in an avalanche that killed nearly an entire school house full of children and teachers in Aberfan.Somewhere near the midpoint the book started to fade for me and I grew lost as family members left home, found spouses, fought their own battles. It just got really confusing. I longed at least for a family tree and a timeline. The verbal round-abouts and endless descriptions began to wear away my patience. When a rather wonderful preacher describes the facts of life to Huw without ever naming a body part I mostly viewed it with astonished admiration for the inventive circumlocutions. Does Huw figure it all out? Well...at the risk of spoilers...I sort ofthinkso....but then again, maybe not.But by the last 200 pages I found myself skipping and skimming....thinking "Get on with it, man! Can't you, for the love of Heaven, just tell us whathappened?" There were also some glaring plot holes that bothered the heck out of me(view spoiler)[Why would a mother, knowing her village's Puritanical, gossip-addiction, actually encourage her teenage son to move in with the family's young, comely widow?(hide spoiler)]Content rating G: Despite the fact that this is ostensibly a coming of age novel the sex is so obscured that no one under the age of consent will be able to figure out what's happening. Some mild violence, scenes of starvation.