In times of presidential elections ethics are helpless, and are employed, all the tricks and gags to manipulate the elections. Senator Sexton uses NASA itself as a weapon to denigrate the president's image, since in recent years the word NASA seemed to have disappeared from newspapers and news in general. Investments, however, were exorbitant. The Senator had not even realized that this argument was a kind of hook that would catch him by the mouth.Rachel Sexton is an attractive woman and specialist in the Secret Service. She works for the White House and is curiously the daughter of the man, Senator Sedgewick Sexton, who yearns to dethrone the current president. The relationship between father and daughter was never the best, infidelity to Mrs. Sexton was successive. Mrs. Sexton's death on Thanksgiving, in a way, fueled Rachel's hatred of her father.An intimidated William Pickering, director of the NRO, warns Rachel of the urgency that the president himself has in talking to her. This emergency had taken the form of a PaveHawk MH-60G helicopter waiting for her on the lawn.It was in the privacy of Air Force One that Rachel has the first contact with the president. Zach Herney, seems to have no problem admitting that he intends to use Rachel as a catapult for a breakthrough that would once and for all bring down his own father.Has NASA finally made a discovery with such a scientific impact? Who pays for every dollar the Americans spent on space?Rachel had the primacy of being able to see with her own eyes, in the middle of winter, in the Arctic, what could make the American people reborn the pride for NASA, which Phoenix was born of ashes. A meteorite installed on the Milne Platform, a meteorite that housed fossils of creatures, isopods, never seen before on Earth, that is, true ETs.This discovery could not have come at a better time for the president, for NASA. But is not everything too good to be true? Is the meteorite real? Were not those fossils beneath the ground that Rachel's feet and all the earthlings trod? Has anything escaped all those scientists?As reality appears in the eyes of the characters in the book a Delta Force team tries to eliminate them, stifling the truth. But what's going on? Who is behind this farce? Of this conspiracy ??