Second buddy read withFathima! :)"I know you're not weak. You've proven yourself. And what you did this weekend, tapping into your powers? I still can't figure out how that happened, but you're not weak. Ever." - DamonI honestly didn't know if I should rate this 2.5 or 3 stars, I've gone with3 starsas the last few chapters redeemed this SO much.I'm going to try and keep this review shortbecause I wasn't completely impresses with this book, however like I previously just mentioned there are certain things that made this book a little more enjoyable.I'm also not going to write about the characters like I normally do becauseI honestly don't thinkthere was much development between them.Oh holy alien babies everywhere.So whatdidI like?- The last few chapters were so fast paced, it was what I enjoyed so much aboutObsidianso from that to go to this, I was kind of thrown off balance.- I have conflicting views about Daemon and Kat, I don't really want to go into detail, I liked them much more in the last few chapters and I'm looking forward to seeing what they're like in the next few books!- Iadoredthe little things Daemon did for Kat, my ultimate moment was the Christmas Tree. I was just so took in, and all of my conflicting views kind of just stopped for a few moments.What Ididn'tlike?- Daemon is so controlling in this book, too controlling. It's possessive and at times made me feel slightly uncomfortable. I'm hoping it's not going to be like this for the next few books.- I hated Blake as a character. Like little things really annoyed me, whenever he hurt Kat she made excuses for him, and I don't think that's how it should be. I think in today's society we need a better representation of these kinds of things and Kat should've spoken up. I know it's not that simple but it honestly grated on me so much.- It was a bit boring in some parts, maybe it was me not liking Blake, but meh.- Kat and Dees friendshipwasn'tthe same. I didn't like that Kat got all the blame either. Dee is wrapped up in someone else, and I wouldn't want to be a third wheel either. I think it's both of the characters fault, but I missed Dee in this book.- I got bored of the "cat and mouse" type thing. We all know how you feel, please sort it out."That's all I ever need to hear." - Damon"Those three words" - Kat"Always those three words" - DamonOverallI thought this was okay, I'm really looking forward toOpal, to carry on my buddy read with Fathima! Lets hope it's back to it's fast paced ways, and Daemon isn't as bad as what he was in this book. Plus... that ending though!