This isn't an easy review to write. This has been my first encounter with the Discworld universe and the many writings of Terry Pratchett, and voicing my opinion on it makes me feel like a blundering fool stumbling into a world that was meant for his younger and perhaps wiser self, a world of which he has only caught a glimpse.Let's start with kicking in an open door. 'Boy', uh, sorry, 'Mort' is a very funny novel. Death, being a wonderfully serious topic, becomes a great source of laughter and smiles in the hands of Sir Pratchett. The book contains the kind of humour that shows the common sense of absurdity and showcases the author's very refreshing look on things. I think for readers, young and old, this different and highly original perspective is something to be appreciated and praised. Comments that follow below are in no way intended to put "but"'s and "maybe it would have been better"'s alongside this praise. An author who is able to describe a voice by the amount of time it could keep milk fresh is above all that. He knew what he was doing and he did it extremely well.That said, I don't think I'll be returning to the Discworld universe very soon. It felt as much too light a read. I intentionally picked the Discworld novel with the Death-theme, not because I'm a dark character but because I was half expecting some philosophical wisdoms holed up here and there. I guess there were some, but not as much as I had expected. There's not half a page that takes itself seriously, sometimes to such an extent that I was wondering why I should continue reading it. The plot is there but it's rather thin, so the jokes are what really drives this novel forward. It's strange really, I'm all for jokes, but I expect a bit more "flesh" in a book. I'd compare it to going to see a stand-up comedian specialized in one-liners. First of all you need a bit of warming up as a member of the audience, let go of a certain air of seriousness, set your mind ready for a laughing spree and go with the flow. I had the same need when reading this. The lightness of the book initially annoyed me, and it took me a couple of pages to just enjoy the humour of it. Which I did. But like with a stand-up comedy, an hour or two is enough. I had the same with this book, resulting in short bouts of reading pleasure, sandwiched between mild annoyance and mild boredom. Apparently there's only so much I can take when it comes to footnotes representing a stream of consciousness plummeting into the absurd, however pleasurable that plunge can be.I'd definitely recommend giving the Discworld Universe a try if you haven't already, but do it sooner rather than later. I think a young reader's mind will appreciate it much more, even though there's something in there for all ages, which I'll try to show, in closing, with my favorite quotes of the book:"Rather than drown in uncertainty it was best to surf right on top of it.""There should be a word for the microscopic spark of hope that you dare not entertain in case the mere act of acknowledging it will cause it to vanish, like trying to look at a photon. You can only sidle up to it, looking past it, walking past it, waiting for it to get big enough to face the world."These quotes don't accurately show the humour of the book, mind you. Death may have no feelings, no sense of justice and a rather grim visage, but he's bound to make you laugh!