Vampire Academy is a difficult book to review.On one hand, it is a variation on the norm and Rose is definitely not the usual character occupying the myriad of PRNs these days. The writing style is blessedly free of awkward construction and mistakes. In fact, the writing isn't too bad at all.The secondary characterizations are quite good for the most part, and well rounded. The pacing is agonizingly slow at the beginning of the book and doesn't pick up until the last fifty pages. The lore behind the story is complex, convoluted and somewhat ridiculous.So you have the Moroi's, a race of weak, magic wielding vampires and the Dhampires who are their stronger "Guardians". The only way that Dhampires breed is if they are lucky enough to get up to shenanigans with the Moroi (who won't marry them) and have illegitimate bastard children. However this is somehow okay for this race because they can't breed amongst themselves and if you're a Dhampire male than you can just give up on the idea of ever having children because extreme chances are that you won't.The Dhamires are the Moroi's Guardians against another race of vampires, the Strogoi, who want to feast on Moroi flesh.But you'd think that, on behalf of your race, if you were a Dhampire and naturally stronger and tougher then these Moroi - you'd just conquer them and keep them as your slaves. Who wants to dedicate their lives (their entire lives - they literally LIVE to protect the Moroi) just for the faint chance of being able to reproduce? Especially with a race that looks down on you!It just doesn't make sense and the dynamics don't really compute. I mean, okay, I'm not the most ethical person out there but if I were a stronger, tougher breed of vampire and the weak vampires came and said, "Okay, we'll keep you as our Guardians and have drunken, disrespectful sex with you on occasion as long as you protect us from the Strogoi." I'd probably respond with, "How about I protect you by keeping you in my dank, dark cellar as my slave while I take over the world? Does that sound fair to you?"It's just the way nature works FFS! The pay off isn't anywhere near the sacrifice!Guardian women either have to give up their children or quit, have no income and become a "blood whore" (those that feed the Moroi - something that's looked down upon as beyond disgusting). I'm sorry. I vote for overthrowing the weak, pissy Moroi and ruling over them as tyrants. It definitely would be a more feasible option with less likelihood of me ending up screwed over.The love story surprised me. I spent the entire book up until the last few pages thinking it was extremely gross, if not weird and awkward. I didn't and I still don't feel any chemistry between the main two love interests. They seem to be thrown together by the author with nothing real between them to make you think that they actually belong together. The last part of the book redeemed a lot of that for me though with the encouraging decisions made by the male romantic lead.Over all, it's not a bad read if you're into teenage romances and school stories. The School aspect plays a major role in this book, particularly the politics of the average teen life. For those who were immensely glad to leave high school behind, this book may not be for you.