I decided to read Vampire Academy because it was on a list of books most likely to inherit Twilight's throne (http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs-an...) .Before I harp on about the first Vampire Academy book, I want to comment on the series as a whole: these books are really readable and quite good fun. They pull fewer punches than a lot of other supernatural novels, and the series gets quite a bit darker as it progresses. The characters encounter myriad trials--mental instability, torture, betrayal, death, and (of course) true love. The primary protagonist, Rose, is especially strong; she is tough, quick-tempered, but very clever with a great sense of humor (and she develops a depth and sadness as the series progresses). Best of all, I think that most of the books in the series are consistent, building effectively on one another--something I can't say for most sagas.I wish the characters were allowed to change and deepen a little more in light of certain traumatic events throughout the series (though to be fair, I think the whole aftereffect of traumatic events is explored more thoroughly in the spin-off series, Bloodlines). I find the dialogue weirdly wooden and would prefer a little more subtext in it (especially for the lest direct, more socially graceful characters like Lissa; Rose is obviously the kind of person who says what she thinks, come hell or high water!) Nonetheless, the books are absorbing, probably my favourite YA vampire novels currently on the market.Now on to a bit about the first book itself:The first book in a series of six, Vampire Academy reads like a combination of Twilight, Gossip Girl, and one of Tamora Pierce's Alanna novels. The heady mixture of vicious gossip, the supernatural, and adolescent sexuality (there's all kinds of making out) creates something compulsively readable and fun.Sure, the reader has to cope with sentences--stuck in the midst of dead serious scenes--that read "And then, suddenly, he was there, charging down the hallway like Death in a cowboy duster"; sure, the character development is about as subtle as a blow to the head. And yes, it's true that the dialog is full of more dead wood than an old oak tree.None of that matters when your story is narrated by a beautiful liquorish body guard who hates books and gets slap-happy whenever anyone else so much as gives her best friend and ward--a vampire princess (yes, a vampire princess)--so much as a funny look. Did I mention that this bodyguard and her princess share a psychic bond? That our tough narrator has a crush on her sexy Russian mentor (who quite obviously fancies her as well)? That all of the other vampire royals are full of malice and gossip? That the vampire princess has special powers? How about a war between "good" and "bad" vampires? Oh reader, this book is good fun.