I kept picking up mentions of these books here and there, so finally got a copy from my library. Also, I have a soft spot for Rangers. Blame Professor T.It was a bit cruel to this book to read it in the middle of a reread of Megan Whalen Turner'sThe Thiefseries, because the contrasts in quality rather jumped out at one. I was inclined to spot it a few points because it was its author's first book, till I reflected that so wasThe Thief. On the other hand, while Turner's book is classified YA, this one is clearly labeled "Children's Fiction" by the Hennepin County Library, so I think it is aimed at (and probably hits) a younger target audience, the "chapter book" crowd in librarian parlance.The start of a coming-of-age adventure series,The Ruins of Gorlanchronicles the initial education of Will, a young orphan raised as a ward of his baron in a sort of generic alternate-England-like scene similar to the one so well described by Diana Wynne Jones in herThe Tough Guide to Fantasyland. Will, in a scene that reminded me of the opening to Pratchett's classicMort, is chosen, last and least, to be apprenticed by an unexpected patron, the grim Ranger Halt.Despite a depth of worldbuilding similar to an RPG game, a tin ear for language and history that includes kilometers and potatoes in this medievaloid setting (well, all right, I probably have to allow him the potatoes, since Tolkien gets away with them), and horses that run like cars, the author manages to endow his collection of stereotypes with increasing charm as the book runs its short course. The pacing and the action scenes are good.It is all very blokey, as if the last half of the 20th century never happened, which, it might be argued, in this world it hasn't. There are a couple of girl characters among the set of five wards we meet at the beginning, but they drop out (along with the scholarly boy) till the end, when they bring pies and a first kiss as rewards for the two action-boy heroes the story does follow. I don't know if their tales are picked up later in the series. If it is the case, as mentioned on the back flap (but occluded by a library tag), that the author wrote it first for his son, much is explained and might charitably be forgiven. But I did get flashbacks to my older brother'sBoys' Lifemagazines, which I used to snitch and read back in the late 50s.Nevertheless, one must wonder how such a society manages to reproduce with so few women. Perhaps they practice polyandry.(Later, I ran a quick check to see if, given the gender imbalance, there was Ranger's Apprentice slash. Well, ofcoursethere is. There is slash for Edwin Abbott'sFlatland, too. I leave you to contemplate this.)Also, just a tip -- never, ever, ever contract to become the mother of a hero. You will have a remarkably short lifespan even by medievaloid standards. In the extremely unlikely event that you do survive childbirth, you will certainly be taken out before your heroic offspring hits puberty. Just sayin'.Not recommended for jaded fantasy readers defensive about their intellectual status,Gorlanis doubtless just fine for chapter-book readers first venturing into the world of books without pictures, likely to keep them coming back for more, which is just what we want. I would have eaten it up in 5th grade myself, despite not being a boy (and only in part because I was oblivious to such gender-political concerns back then.)I might well read some more of these, if only to see how the writer develops with practice. And also to find out if the girls' lives ever get any air time -- the author does have daughters as well, I see.Ta, L.