Okay, I would love to give this book ever-so-many more stars, but nothing ruins a book like half-a$$ed politics.I mean, really?!? James, or whoever really wrote this (who is brilliant and the object of my emulation in so many ways), do you really want all children to be socialist democrats?It's just hilarious to me how present players refuse to learn from history... the alternative being that they are students of history, bent on repeating it over and over again, not caring how many people die as long as it's the "right" people.Boo on that.Oh, and kids with sticks and rocks overthrowing a huge, top-secret, billion-dollar facility with no mention of casualties?Like most of the book, I'm pretty sure that's just a pie-in-the sky dream for Max, and if it wasn't so dangerous and historically flawed I could let it go. The French wanted to kill their royalty, the Germans blamed their problems on the Jews, and America is starting to villify corporations and people with money.Historically, this trend happens again and again, with the poor/middle-class demanding what the rich have--with no idea how to earn that kind of money themselves, mind you. No, it kind of comes down to killing those with the money so you can just take it by force.Anyway, clearly I had issues with the message of this book. There's a reason most sci-fi uses metaphors rather than current politics. It's because when an author sets out to use brilliant characters to convert young minds to a current political movement, it makes it impossible to truly enjoy the story.I'm not a big fan of current environmental policy, current industry standards, landfills, waste and all that stuff, but it's not entirely the fault of corporations. We're the ones who want low prices, who don't use solar and wind power because it's still too pricey and buy everything the corporations tell us too. THAT's a beeter message to give kids: that by supporting the problem by giving it your money makes you the source of the problem. If you're so against large corporations then stop drinking Coke, playing Wii, seeing movies, using paper/government-issued money, eating pre-packaged food not grown or killed locally, riding your mass-produced bike, driving in a car, flying to visit family and buying anything with a logo on it.THAT is how you take down massive, international corporations. Not by throwing sticks and stones over a high security wall, miraculously destroying a droid army and saving the day.If you haven't read the book, all this probably sounds nonsensical to you, but the main point is: this book has an agenda for kids.So, if you've made it this far, IMO this book is nearly ruined by shallow, simplistic environmental politics. Fang's blog is completely uncharacteristic of him and nauseating.And including the blog's comments?? Who's dumb idea was that?!? It was like spoon-feeding kids words they should parrot at home and school and play.Gag me!