In my humble and honest opinion, I don't think this book sucked that hard. I mean, there has happened a lot of stuff. The whole "dividing the flock" part and lots of other parts, that right now don't pop into my mind, because I'm exhausted as hell.We all know, that James Patterson is a nice author and he knows how to strike his audience. This instalment had a nice pace, it was full of action, romance etc. One thing that actually bothered me was the fact, that Max was kinda proud of herself. Like for example, she was talking about herself as pretty, pretty amazing, amazing Max and so on. I mean, c'mon, what a hell? You aren't even half that awesome as you think, miss I-Am-The-Center-Of-Universe!I liked the part, when Angle turned into a back-stabbing little brat. I thought: "Oh, yeah, Patterson, you got me, big time!" But then, it has been all explained and worked out too easily. She should've at least stay there for another couple of days to find out about some important facts, if reading minds doesn't help in this case.Iggy, Gazzy, Nudge... as usual. The part of flock which is sort of only a background. I mean, they haven't really took their parts in that story, except for cheering for Fang and Max and sometimes saying something. But they didn't bother me, so I'm cool with it.Fang was awesome as usual. I like him, you know? Maybe it's because he is always quiet. I can relate to him the most. In some ways, I think we are really similar. Similar so much, that I sometimes find it quite creepy.Alright, the whole romance was pretty much getting on my nerves with the constant: "Oh yeah, Fang I love you so much, Fang that doesn't meant anything, choose me or him, I'm leaving, get back please, she's my world..." Gosh! Seriously? I felt like punching them both for their utter stupidity!Well, still I can't wait until I get my hands on the next book in the series, The Final Warning. It has pretty low rating and many people say, that this series start to lose it's point after this one. The truth is, I dont give a shit. I'll read it anyways. It can't be more boring than Evermore or Twilight were, so I guess it's clear.