It has been many years since I last read this, and the last time was not the first time. The last time was probably around twenty years ago and my feelings about what makes a good book have changed somewhat in that time and my thoughts on this classic of 80's fantasy. Originally I gave this 4 stars when I shelved it here, but actually, having read it as a teen I probably would have given it a full 5 stars. In addition, a few years ago I had generally stopped reading Feist as an author after too many low quality pulp books which failed to even hit that 'guilty pleasure' zone where you can read something which is not really so good, but you like the characters, or the world, or it's just a bit of ripping fun - we all have them in books, TV shows, and films. However, Feist had pretty much stopped doing that for me (I can't remember which one(s) it was which drove me off though). However, before I had convenient access to Kindle I spotted a whole four book series (Serpentwar Saga) and that was the nail in the coffin. I still enjoyed and have re-read the Empire Trilogy since then, so I had begun to strongly suspect that it was Feist's writing I had the problem with. Given time though, I wondered if it was more of a case of a great early start, but then the author falling into the trap of being derivative of themself.So, coming to this re-read I had some mixed feelings. The first half of the book had all the hallmarks of some good pulp fantasy of the period. However, the longer things went on the more flat everything felt. Character development stalled, and events begun to be rushed with large chunks of exposition. The early promise of at least some focus on the two boys quickly slipped away and their changes and growth are entirely glossed over and explained away in what amounts to a series of training montages, and any significant changes to their personalities are explained away by being the result of magic. Additional characters are very two-dimensional and events occur sometimes with little explanation. Even the world setting, which I once enjoyed so much as it was so similar to a classic Dungeons and Dragons setting, now seemed to be stale and flat because it was so similar to a classic Dungeons and Dragons setting - and what parts were unique, were often glossed over and poorly used.There were still enough enjoyable parts, and the greater story still was fun, and of course I remember enjoying the book so much more when I was younger, so I cannot be too harsh on this book. A good one for boys - not really so great for men, and very little for anyone else, as the female characters are quite pathetic existing to be used and abused by the menfolk. Very much a book of its time.