I didn't enjoy Across the Universe as much as I thought I would. Like most YA, after the first 100 pages, you know you're reading a novel written for teens. That isn't a bad thing, but readers looking for a deep, complex novel, aren't going to find it here.ETA:YA is not synonymous with shallow. Some writers think it is, but it isn't. They think that because they're writing for teens, they get a pass to write a book filled with plot holes. I don't think that's the case with Beth Revis, but I just wanted to clear up my statement.Across the Universe doesn't know what it wants to be. On one hand, it's a typical YA romance that revolves around infatuation at first sight. On the other hand, it's got an interesting premise, even though it isn't very plausible when compared to other Science Fiction novels that tackle Generation Ships.It isn't necessarily a bad book. Not at all. I'd call it Science Fiction 101 for those who haven't readEnder's Game. But it isn't a good book. Not by any means.I was really disappointed with the last 150 pages. Instead of a mature ending, we're treated to a classic Agatha Christie, everyone is the suspect mystery. We have adequate build-up and suspense--in fact, we have very good build up and suspense--and our pay-off is equally decent. But, I could see the villain from a mile away. Across the Universe is predictable, but highly suspenseful, kind of like a bad whodunit.As much as I liked Across the Universe, I have a few major problems with it.1.The RomanceI have no idea why Elder liked Amy. Oh, I know he thought she was attractive. Why, I have no idea. Because she's different? No. Studies have been done to show that the introduction of a variable into a constant society doesn't produce these effects. For the record, Pocahontas didn't fall in-love with John Smith. That was a lie. Disney lied to you. If you didn't know that, I wonder about your intelligence.Logically, Elder should have been somewhat freaked out by the appearance of Amy. Not disgusted, just freaked out. Instead, he accepts her and falls in love with her for no reason except for the fact that she is different. Apparently, the rest of the women on the ship--the ones that looked like him--were all beneath him. I won't go into detail about how wrong I think that is.As for Amy, I can understand why she likes Elder. It makes sense. He's the only person who's nice to her, he's attractive, and she's lonely.They don't sizzle on the page. They have no chemistry. Honestly, I wish the romance had been left out of this book. It's been hyped up so much, and it's such a failure.2.AmyAmy is annoying. At times, she reminded me of Bella Swan. There is a murderer aboard the ship and Eldest wants to kill you. What do you do?A. Logically pull yourself together and try to keep a clear head. You love both of your parents, but you remember that they're essential to the survival of the colony. You're worried, but you want to explore the ship and make discoveries. After all, you're in space! No-one forced you to come.B. Panic. Worry about your Daddy and constantly think about pulling him out of cryosleep, but don't think one whit about your mom. Think constantly about running--your singular hobby--and your old boyfriend Jason, who you can't live without. You also constantly talk back to Eldest, who could toss you out of the ship at any time.Which of these sounds more logical? Well, if you're a female YA protagonist, you picked B.Amy angst about being in cryosleep for the first 90 pages of Across the Universe. Then she continues to angst and whine about her Daddy, Jason, and how unfair her life is. Yes, she is seventeen and she still calls her dad, daddy. I see a problem with this. But she doesn't spend more than five seconds thinking about her mom.Amy made Across the Universe really annoying. This could have been a four star book without her. But her constant whining annoyed me. I understand that she's in a difficult situation, but she's in space! Thousands would die to be in her position. It reminds me of those stupid girls that complain about going to foreign countries for the summer. You're going to France you idiot, why are you whining?3.Did I Mention the Romance?Elder is a decent character. Kind of dumb, but decent. He's a regular teenage boy when he isn't lusting over Amy. He reminded me of Jacob Black. And yes, I'm a Blackwater fan. I hate Twilight, but I can't for the life of me relinquish my liking of Blackwater and Jacob/Rosalie. Knowing this, you should understand why I immediately started shipping Victrie and Elder together. Sparks weren't flying off the page, but they had way more chemistry than Amy and Elder. Unfortunately, Victrie is only mentioned in a couple of chapters. She's still my favorite character, which leads me to my next point.4.HarleyHarley, oh Harley. How interesting you are. You're probably my second favorite character.(view spoiler)[How I hate that Revis killed you off. You were a much better match for Amy than Elder.(hide spoiler)]5.The SlangI swear, if I hear one more frex or chuntz, I'm shooting something.6.The PacingBy the time Elder and Amy finally meet, we're one third through the book. At that point, I couldn't care less about their romance.7.The EndingRead it. You'll see what I mean.8.The Rape SceneHave we really gone back to the time ofThe Clansman? I know that link points to another book. But honestly, I respect Aaron McGruder way more than I respect Thomas Dixon.In all, this isn't a bad book. I probably would have enjoyed it more if I had read it all in one setting. I liked it. I really did. But with guilty pleasures you have to acknowledge that they have faults. 2.5 stars for effort.