I might have rated this book higher had I read this before Richelle Mead'sVampire Academyseries. As it stands, the characters and the plot all feels like a very watered down version of VA. I couldn't help comparing one character to the next, and they all felt lacking. The premise is slightly different, but the boarding school setting, the reviled and necessary half-bloods, the evil daimons/strigoi, all felt rehashed, and not in a good way.Alex is Rose, without the spunk, with more slut-shaming (does she really need to repeatedly call her nemesis Lea a skank? Is it necessary to mention that Lea is probably promiscuous?). Her actions are more impulsive than rational. While Rose is literally, kick-ass, Alex is relatively weak, and her wins versus the daimons seemed more coincidental than from purely skill. Like Rose, Alex has been on the run for awhile, but it feels like she lacks the common sense to survive on her own.While Rose is spunky and impulsive, she has the good sense to keep it under control when it matters most, whereas Alex just feels the need to be contrary just for the sake of pissing people off, even when she is endangering her whole future. When your options are entering in a lifelong sentence of mindless servitude or being a more or less respected Sentinel, any person with common sense would try to behave and not get into further trouble. Not Alex. She is smart-mouthed and just a jerk in general, even admitting it herself.There is the love interest, Aiden, a watered-down version of Dimitri. Caleb, the lesser version of Christian. The almighty Seth is the only one of whom I can't find a clear-cut double in Vampire Academy, but he's not altogether likeable yet.It seems as if all of Alex's companions and closer friends are male. I'm really smelling a Mary Sue here, but I'll continue on with the series to see if that's the case.I do like the incorporation of mythology. Whereas in some other series I've read likeMythos Academy, the living gods and goddesses do not get involved in the characters of their creation, whereas here they actually do take a part in monitoring their descendants. I enjoy the bits of lore, and I hope that will be fleshed out in the books to come.