Funny, Brechtian Story of a Murderous Dwarf who is a Genius DrummerThis is a tough book to review.The story usesBrecht's concept of distancingto keep us from identifying with the characters.The tale takes place in Germany and Poland, before, during, and after World War II.The main character and narrator is Oskar Matzerath, a dwarf (and later on, a hunchbacked dwarf), who develops a precocious genius for drumming as a toddler. His parents supply him with toy tin drums (which he wears out with his incessant drumming). Hence, the title.Oskar is born in Danzig (also known as Gdansk), the sometimes German but most often Polish, city on the Baltic coast. Unbeknownst to the clueless adults around him who think he's retarded, is born with the cognitive faculties of an adult. He becomes a dwarf because he decides to stop growing at age three to avoid having to work in his family's grocery store. The hunchback shows up later, after an illness when he is older.Oskar tells us that at his baptism in the local Catholic church he deliberately does not renounce Satan (which the adults present, including his putative father, Jan Bronski attribute to his "retardation). Actually, Oskar wants to keep his relationship with Satan and not denounce it. After the baptism, Oskar whispers to Satan (who seems to be alive and well within him):"Did you make it through?" (through the Baptism he means).'Satan hopped up and down and whispered, "Did you see those church windows, Oskar? All glass, all glass!"This refers to Oskar's ability (also unknown to the adults, except his mother) to "sing shatter" glass, that is to sing a high note which shatters glass.Oskar goes on to live a life of crime, including committing several murders. He also wins acclaim, later in life, for his prodigious talent as a drummer.(view spoiler)[Oskar desecrates more than a few churches, including the scene of his baptism, by shattering the windows and helping steal the sacred objects. He heads up a local boys' gang, and he is directly or indirectly responsible for the murders or deaths of nearly everyone close to him. He harasses and terrifies the poor nurse, Sister Dorothea.Oskar expresses some remorse and sorrow for them, but it seems these are mostly "crocodile tears".(hide spoiler)]He seems to have the capacity to survive no matter what (part of his deal with the Devil?), for example, producing a precious necklace (supposedly a gift) from its hiding place at the very moment he needs to flee his home.At one point, Oskar decides he wants to take refuge from the world in a Mental Hospital with comfy beds. So he manipulates a "friend" into betraying him and accusing him of a murder he did not commit. After his lawyer exonerates him and he is let out of the mental institution, he contemplates going to America, where his grandfather (an arsonist) might be living.There are many other characters in this colorful, picaresque tale. There are Oskar's various loves, the full sized Maria (who might be the father of Oskar's presumed son, Kurt, a "chip off the old block"--a total brat who hits and punches his "dad") and the deceased Roswitha, another dwarf. There is his "master", Bebra, who enlists Oskar to join his travelling show at one point and at a later time, contracts him to play concerts throughout Germany.There is Bruno, Oskar's attendant in the loony bin There is the elegant Jan Bronski, Oskar's mother's lover. (She is married to Matzerath). There is Oskar's beloved mother herself, and his Kashubian grandmother, who grows potatoes and always wears four skirts. And so on...there are many minor characters too.During the War, Oskar supports either the Polish opposition or the Nazis (even though he doesn't particularly like the Nazis), depending on what's convenient for him.Oskar is clearly a villain. He commits multiple crimes, including many murders (direct and indirect), vandalism, theft, etc. He's vain, selfish, malicious, cruel and an accomplished liar. He's diabolically clever and comes out on top no matter what befalls him.But for some reason we don't hate him. He is a weird and amusing fellow. He's also an excellent story teller. Is he a mirror of the dark side in all of us?I've read somewhere that Oskar symbolizes Nazism. Maybe, but I think Fascism would be closer to the mark. Germany falls through and so he wants to go to America. So America will become the new Fascist state?Paul Michael Garcia does a decent job as the audio reader. I followed along in the ebook as I listened to the audio.Update: I recently found out that Gunter Grass was a member of the Nazi party in Hitler's Germany.. He hid and denied this most of his life and in fact spent much of his later life denouncing the Nazis. So the author's real life story resembles that of Oskar in a way. Like Oskar, he was an opportunist.