This novel written in the voice of a fictional memoir tells the story of a boy/man growing up in theFree City of Danzigin the years between WWI &amp; WWII and continues through the war years into the late 1940s. The story is narrated in a droll tone of realism but also contains impossible events and abilities. The combination is surreal.The main character who's narrating the story (written in a mental hospital, accused of murder) indicates he decided to stop growing after age three (and indeed stopped growing), latter after the war decided to begin growing again, and meanwhile through all these events he has the ability to break and etch glass by screaming in a high pitched voice (and using that skill as part of a traveling troupe of dwarfs entertaining German troops). After the war he moves to West Germany, obsesses sexual thoughts about nurses, eventually becomes a rockstar solo drum performer who moves audiences to pee in their pants. At age of thirty he is released from the mental hospital after being exonerated of murder charges. The book ends with him fearing the Black Cook.In case the above summary of the book's narrative creates discombobulation of your mind, welcome to "The Tin Drum."It's an epic written with mythic components about a troubled time in history prone to be mis-remembered.This combination of bizarre happenings portrayed over the backdrop of Nazism and WWII begs to be interrupted symbolically. There is no allegorical interpretation to be consistently applied throughout the book. Nevertheless, I offer the following thoughts about various aspects of the story.Two FathersThe main character has two fathers, one Polish, the other German. He's not sure which one is the biological father, but the German is legally his father. This seem symbolic of the political situation of prewar Danzig, which was both/neither German and Polish.The Four SkirtsOskar's grandfather escaped responsibility for arson by hiding under his grandmother's four skirts while police were hot on his trail (they were unmarried strangers at the time). The four skirts symbolize sexual experiences as well as escape from responsibility. But why four?Escape From ResponsibilityHe avoids execution which was experienced by his two fathers and the Duster Gang by his childlike size and appearance. His behavior was that of a betrayer.Tin DrumThe red and white colors of his tin drum happen to be the national colors of Poland. The drum expresses his emotions and later as a way to arose emotions of others. The novel itself becomes a source of irritation to the reader that is played by a man-child as troubled and flawed as any of others in the story incapable of resisting Nazism and later unwilling to remember.Shattered GlassIs this an echo of Kristallnacht? Remote destruction of glass via high pitched voice must surely be a figment of life in an imaginary world, a world in which Oskar wishes to covey damage to the surrounding fragile political environment. Later it's a way to cause adults to behave like infants which perhaps is a form of remembering.Obsession and PremonitionsThe Black Cook, Luzie Rennwand's triangular fox face, and Nurse Sister Dorothea's finger in a jar of formaldehyde are vivid obsessions that drive Oskar to irrational behavior and fear of death.Goethe and RasputinWhat's the deal with Goethe and Rasputin? Oskar frequently interprets events through a filter of Goethe and Rasputin. One interpretation is that Rasputin represents facism and Goethe represents culture which is a dichotomy experienced by prewar Germany.Jesus and SatanAt various times Oskar claims to be Jesus, and during an attempted rape he is mistaken for Satan. This is confirmation in my mind that Oskar is delusional and living in an imaginary world. Needless to say, he's also an unreliable narrator but still capable of telling his story with great precision and detail. The combination is disorienting.Nuns on the BeachDuring a visit to Normandy Beach (on what ended up being the day before D-Day) a German soldier is ordered to shoot some Catholic nuns roaming the beach searching for prawns. Years later Oskar visits the same site with the same soldier, and they reminisce about that event. Neither time is there any expression of guilt or regret. Some nuns show up during the second visit as well which makes me wonder, are those nuns real? Were they actually ships sailing on the sea?