Poor vampires. Such a bad press over the years what with all the blood sucking, neck snapping and general ravaging of virgins, maidens and anyone with a taste for Gothic-style bedroom furniture and an open window.Still, now that Edward Cullen and his pan-faced fan base of moody teens have infiltrated popular culture, replacing the stereotypical images of pale, foppish young men in lacy cuffs and brocaded velvet jackets with a utilitarian Gap-Style wardrobe of urban wear (and a slightly sulky look), we seem to be moving further away from the more traditional imagery. That said, R-Patz (see I know the lingo, I listen to the kids) appears to be dead from the eyeballs down in many scenes and is probably as wooden as the stake which should be used to pin him back into his eternal resting place, so not all elements of the vampire legend have been entirely done away with.Interview with the Vampire was almost solely responsible (see Lost Boys for its partner in crime) for spawning the epidemic known as the great vampire obsession of the late 20th century or at the very least a huge resurgence in the interest in vampire myth and lore. Ok, ok Bram Stoker deserves a big old nod for originally bringing us the whole idea of wing-ed blood suckers who like nothing more than a snooze in a wooden box and a brisk sea journey to the north-east coast of England. Or if you like we can go a bit further back and point the sharp end of the stake at Sheridan Le Fanu for his sapphic vampires which featured in his collection of short stories "In a Glass Darkly". Whoever you'd like to blame for it, you have to admit they were onto a good wheeze. The romance of immortality fuelled by the go-juice of another human being (it goes down easier if you just think of it as a sort of clotted Slim-Fast meal) seems to have had a weirdly kinky appeal which has garnered it a fan base of millions. Lets break it down and see what there really is to like about being a vampire.Eternal life - obviously gets a big tick but then it does depend who you get stuck with. If you end like Louis, locked in a bitter battle of wills with the sadistic Lestat, then eternity is going to seem like, well.... an eternity.Drinking blood - readily available, free (therefore credit crunch chic), nutritious and virtually calorie free. It's simple: Live fast, die young, drink blood and have a good looking and upwardly mobile corpse. (WARNING: don't try this at home- this review is not suggesting that a diet of blood will ever do you any favours, nor is it condoning "borrowing" the blood of people who are not you). Alternatively, forever is a long time to go without a solid meal and you know you'll eventually start complaining that dinner always tastes the same.Flight/ surprisingly speedy turns of movement - being super fast is a handy skill to have if you need to face the pacey modern lifestyle of the 21st century. Queue jumping, being first in the door at the Harvey Nichols January Sales and avoiding having to sit in economy class during flights are all things which would improve my life.Sleeping in a coffin - compact and bijoux if you live in a tiny inner city apartment where you're kitchen, bathroom, living room and bedroom are all practically the same room. Why not drape your coffin with an attractive throw and turn it into a table for night-time use? On the downside no one ever said eternal rest would be a comfortable one.Interview with the Vampire takes itself pretty seriously (a lot more seriously than this review), and despite the fact Louis' hand wringing and tortured immortal soul act did start to grate on me towards the end, overall I enjoyed this and was able to stop raising my eye brows long enough to appreciate the detail and originality of the story. Fangs for the great story Anne!