First Sentence: The pirate's head had disappeared.In this 7th book to the Outlander series, Jamie, Claire and Ian are leaving the Ridge headed for Scotland to take Ian back to his family and bring Jamie's printing press back to the Colonies. Roger and Brianna have returned to the present and have settled at Lallybroch, but they've not completely left the past behind. William is anxious to prove himself in battle and Lord John is dealing with his family, both in England and in Pennsylvania.I was both delighted and disgusted with this book. Either way, it is clear Ms. Gabaldon (1) rushed the ending and (2) does not have a continuity editor. The story was so rife with coincidence as to almost be humorous. There were so many characters with significant stories it diluted each of the stories. However, there were also historical characters whose presence may have added a veracity to the period but added little to the story.Jamie and Claire are the focal point of the series. You'd never know that from this book where we jump between Jamie and Claire, Roger and Brianna, Lord John, William, and Denny and Rachael Hunter. The continual jumps in time and focus felt more as though it was bad episodic television than reading what should have been a wonderfully engrossing novel. In addition, there were inaccuracies and terrible inconsistencies that should have been caught.What makes it difficult is that, in essence I did like the book. There were scenes which touched my heart and even brought tears to my eyes. Gabaldon is very good at tugging the heartstrings. There were scenes of suspense and humor. However, there were also scenes where critically important information was being conveyed among the characters, but the reader was exited from the scene. All the scenes were so scattered throughout the story, it caused the pacing to be very uneven....and the ending; I am loathe to even mention the ending. To say it felt rushed would be kind. To say there were more story threads left dangling than a cat playing in a yarn basket would be an understatement. To say it was frustrating and extremely disappointing does not strongly enough express my feelings toward the ending.Were Ms. Gabaldon a poor writer, I could dismiss all this and walk away, but she is not. I have absolutely loved all the previous books in this series; yes, even Fiery Cross. She has created characters about whom I care and have taken to my hearts. She has created a story in which I am invested both in time--both in reading time alone and in the number of years this series has been part of my life--and in money--I own the books in hardcover, trade paperback and the audio books.Ms. Gabaldon is, apparently, going to fix some of the mistakes found in the hardcover edition of this book prior to the trade paperback edition being released. That's all well and good, but it still leaves those of us with the hardcover edition, particularly where I bought 6 signed copies at full price, with error-laden books. I should have much preferred the errors be caught and corrected in the first place.I shall continue with the series as these characters are now part of my life and I really want to know where the story goes. However, I do feel Ms. Gabaldon has a responsibility, both to herself and to her very faithful legion of fans, to spend more time and do a better job on Book 8.