Readers can find a lot of diversity across the YA spectrum. There areGossip Girldramas, insightful reflections, and adventure reads.Needby Carrie Jones sits between the latter two. It's a novel about junior Zara White coming to terms with the recent death of her father, a mother who deals with her husband's death and her daughter's grief by folding and sending Zara away, and rumors of a serial killer in a strange Maine backwater town.Needcan easily be dissected into two moods: the first a mystery as Zara learns the disturbing depths of her town and comes to trust a few friends and finds a possible love interest. It's the Getting to Know You period.The second mood of the novel is What Comes After. Zara has learned the truth, finds allies and enemies. Here's the action element and without this I feel the book would have been too simplistic. However, this conflict presents another layer that only improves the story, as Zara deals with X and Y and Z all at once, i.e. emotional, family, and supernatural problems.The story's told in first person, present-tense mode from Zara's point of view in a concise, relatively simple style that really speeds the narrative along and allows us to sink ourselves into Zara's plight, especially her reconciliation with her father's death, which conflict is probably one of the most critical in the book. (For this reason, I relate the book toThe Silver Kissby Annette Curtis Klause, whose heroine meets a vampire but narrative ultimately hinges on the death of a loved one.)Not to diminish the romance, of course. That was satisfactory for this romance reader. ;) (PG-13, FYI.) And the fight with the pixies! LOL. (They're Grimm's pixies, not Disney's, okay? Work with me here.)However, the style does have its drawbacks.Needis pretty simple and straightforward, without the complexity, gray areas and subtext that we love. I don't want to compare every YA paranormal novel I read againstTwilight, but sinceNeedis advertised as comparable to that book, I'll say thatNeed's characters and plot are somewhat shallower, with the notable exception of the pixies who are a definite gray area. So this is lite.Ididlike that Zara was not obnoxious. She was an intelligent teen, and I do like the themes for younger readers in this book, the encouragement to be proactively involved in the world and write, the contrast of need vs. love (particularly relevant to readers who may be struggling with the physical implications of that question, even though they may not draw blood like the pixies, LOL).I will probably be reading the sequel, since the ending left me no choice (!) I would recommend this to readers looking for a simple, quick adventure romance. :D