Good Lord! It was extremely trying to get through this one. I think it's safe to say I've had enough Anne for the time being. There were still elements that I liked in this book, but I had some major issues with Anne herself here.What a blind idiot! You had the tingly feelings for Gilbert in the past and just brushed them off as nothing. In my experience, that tingly feeling doesn't evaporate. Every time you see that person, it grows and grows until eventually something needs to be done about it either way. How can you blush every time someone mentions that persons name and have no idea why? You're a smart lady! Why are you acting so dumb?Second of all, I don't know if this was typical back in the day, but what was up with dating people but hardly ever seeing them but once or twice a year, even though you go to school together and live close by? How do you date someone for two years and hardly know them? Why are you being proposed to every thirty seconds.Also that story about that guy whose mom wouldn't let him marry anyone until she died was extremely effed up because he wouldn't propose to his girlfriend after twenty years until the mom died but he PROPOSED TO ANNE when the mom was still alive. What a crock of poooooop!Anne became pretty stuck up the older she got. I liked her better as a little crazy kid. By the end of the first book she matured and I was like: fine. This is fine. Everybody grows up at some point. However, Anne needs to get over herself, thank you very much. She walks around with her perfect nose acting all better than everyone and is worshiped everywhere she goes and just blech. Stop.Lastly, I was upset by the animal abuse featured in this book. At one point, Anne and her friends try to kill a cat by suffocating it in a box. Thankfully it doesn't work but SERIOUSLY!?! You were going to kill a cat just because it was ugly and liked you? Then later on, she got pissed about something in her own life and took it out on the poor puss by boxing its ears. WTF, ANNE!?!The ending is what I wanted all along but it shouldn't have taken until the last few pages to get it. This was a frustrating read!