Despite all my protests and misgivings about a book on infidelity, I was surprised that had the urge to get back to the story and find out what happened. For that, I wanted to give the book 4 stars, but I just couldn't because, well, it's a book about infidelity, and not just about infidelity, but the view point that there's nothing wrong with it since the couple isn't married yet.The book starts with A LOT of backstory. It's eventually important to Rachel and Darcy's relationship, but it sure makes the beginning drag. What I wanted from that opening scene was not memories of Rachel and Darcy as kids. I wanted to be pulled into the scene and believe the sequence of events that ended with a girl in bed with her best friend's fiancee. I needed more to get me there. The lawyer-presenting-to-the-jury bit afterwards was amusing, but it didn't get me into her head to justify how it happened. I needed more to sympathize with Rachel.Maybe what I needed to sympathize with her more was a reason Dex was worth risking a friendship over. All I got from Rachel were some vague stereotypes that he was handsome and smart. Even in the scenes he was in, I didn't get any personality from him. He was like a fuzzy character in a dream that never quite materializes into a real person. I had to take Rachel's word for it every time she said she loved him because I didn't get anything out of their relationship. When Ethan asked Rachel if she was only interested in Dex so she could win something over Darcy, I thought that must be it. I'm still not convinced that isn't true. In the end I had a hollow feeling, and it wasn't just at the things lost. It was that I still didn't know Dex and didn't know if he was worth it to either girl. It made the ending mean a whole lot less to me.The whole book I kept trying to get inside Dex's head to figure out why he was cheating, why he wouldn't make a decision, why he stayed with Darcy, why he kept leading Rachel on, why he did anything, but I couldn't pin down Dex's motivation. While it bothered me to have such a pivotal character so undefined, it kind of worked to keep up the suspense. I had no idea if he liked Darcy or Rachel, if he was using Rachel or Darcy, if he was conflicted about this whole thing or a player, or if he was going to pull some twist in the whole drama. Darcy was supposed to be the volatile unknown, but I almost think Dex was more of one.In the end, I don't think the story is as much about the love triangle as it is about friendship. The complexity of childhood-turned-adult friendship was very well done and I even though I wanted to strangle Darcy, I could see why Rachel had remained friends with her. Interesting that the character who moved in to late to reach best friend status (who was also so passive) was named Annalise. I don't know what that's like at all (read: sarcasm). I had trouble with the route and justifications and conclusions that the romance took, but looking at the story as a journey of two friends, I liked it a whole lot more.ETA: I liked the movie. Dex was still a cardboard, but I could see better what Rachel saw in him and how he was conflicted. John Kransinski stole the show.