So the other day I'm in Fortinos with my sister, and we're standing over the muffin trays trying to decide which muffins to buy. I'm a creature of habit, and I want blueberry, but she says they don't have any."They do." I point to them. "Right there.""But we always get blueberry.""That's because we like them. Everybody likes blueberry."She picks up a tray of cranberry and says, "Why don't we try these? Or we could have the carrot ones."This is my sister. She's always chomping at the fucking bit to "try something new", like weird vegan gluten-free cupcakes or kale shakes, and she guilts me into going for it too, but when we get home and take a bite, she'll say, "Hm. It's all right. I suppose."So I pick up the blueberry. "We're getting these.""But I want--""Fine," I snap, and pick up the carrot ones too. "We'll buy two. Your indecision will bankrupt us, but that's the cross you bear."So we grumpily head for the self check-out, but I screech to a halt by the magazine rack. There, staring at me like a shrunken head, is the newest issue ofHello! Canada. With trembling hands, I pick it up off the shelf.My sister creeps up behind me and lays a hand gently on my shoulder. "I know. I saw it on Yahoo."In horror I read the title again and again, willing it not to be true. But it is. It...is.TOM AND KATIE: END OF A FAIRYTALEWhat their divorce will mean for daughter SuriA single tear dampens my cheek, and in defeat I drop the magazine into our shopping cart. My sister, ever the comforting soul, tries in vain to lessen my grief."I'm sure Katie will be fine," she soothes. "And Tom will too. They'll land on their feet. And they'll find love again."I fiercely wipe the tears from my eyes. "Yeah, right.""Hey, hey. They will. Don't worry. Everything will be fine."When I get home, I sit down on the couch and begin reading the magazine with a box of tissues by my side to mop up what I'm sure will be rivers of tears. But an odd thing happened.I wasn't sad.In fact, I was glad. I was glad Katie noped the fuck out of that creepy Scientologist shit. I can't imagine the absolute bloody torment of living with the person who embodiesMission Impossible. Can you imagine a crueller or more unusual punishment?That's what this book is like.On the dust jacket, Luce and Daniel's sweeping romance reads like an epic, beautiful love story. Much like Tom and Katie, when they posed on the red carpet draped over a motorcycle (both wearing some questionable flared jeans). It sounds like something so tragic and heart-rending. Something magical. Something pure.And then you peel back the layers, and it's not sweet. It's just wrong on so many levels.Look. I gave this book three stars. I'm being extremely merciful. After a slew of one-star rants and one very tentative two-star raise, I was desperate for this book to blow me away and convince me that Daniel and Luce really are the power couple of the century.Which is to say, I hoped that my dog would sprout wings and fly me off to Disneyworld where everything is free and Matthew McConaghey is my husband.The stars are applicable as follows.Star 1: The writing. It was lovely.Star 2: The plot, up until about page 340.Star 3: Cam, Arriane, and the coin-toss guy.So this book, unlike the other three in the series, has a really strong plot. It kept me gripped from the first page to...well, page 340. After that it got so fucking stupid and cheesy and ridiculous and by the end, I knew without a shadow of a doubt that Luce is the biggest Mary Sue ever to grace YA fiction. She's worse than Bella Swan. And Bethany Church.It all goes down like this: in order to find the original site of the Fall, Luce and the gang have to track down three relics that are required to complete a ritual wherein the blood of a sacrifice reveals an ancient map of the world, starred with the point on the earth where the angels fell at the dawn of time. Doesn't that sound cool? Well, it is. So Luce and Daniel head off to Venice (of course they do), Luce cries when she fucks up, then when she finds the relic she almost drowns.This is what gets me: Luce swims into a sunken church to find the relic while Daniel waits for her outside (he cannot enter a church because he is a fallen angel). She gets the relic, but stupidly dives without any breathing apparatus because Daniel tells her he'll help her to breathe by giving her air (?). She is literally counting on Daniel to make sure she gets out of there alive. When she tries to get out of the church she almost dies because she gets stuckand Daniel has swum away and left her.The Outcasts appeared and that's why he swam away, but no fighting happens or has happened. The Outcasts have never once threatened to kill Luce. There was no need for Daniel to rush away. When they get up to the surface, Luce and Daniel's conversation goes like this:Daniel's hands found hers underwater. "Are you all right?""What happened to you?" she cried. "I almost--""Luce," he warned. "Shhh." (91)What the actual fuck? The Outcasts are watching them, but they are not combative at all. In fact, they are perched on the spires of the church, watching quietly. Daniel could have taken two nanoseconds to explain to Luce why he left her and almost let her drown, but he chooses not to.This pattern is a constant throughout the book. Luce's dialogue is a handful of short cut-off sentences, because Daniel is constantly,constantlyinterrupting her. He talks over her like she isn't there."How are you feeling?""The halo--""We have the halo." (101)"How long was I asleep?" Luce asked. It was nightfall. "How much time do we have left--""Seven days, Luce," Daniel said quietly. (102)"But now that they're gone--""Now that they're gone, you can do it on your own." (120)There's also Luce's Daphne-esque tendency to always be captured, and have to rely on Daniel to release her. The Scale, who are now suddenly and inconsistently evil, pounce on Luce and bind her up in a cloak. She lies at the sidelines of the battle for an entire scene--literally an ENTIRE scene--while everyone else fights. In the end, it's Daniel who has to flourish his phallus and rescue her.Luce's shortcomings are never ever addressed, and everyone inexplicably loves her. I think a few people actually call her "strong" and laud her bravery and intelligence, which is just laughable. But the worst part is that the existence of the entire world rests on Daniel and Luce's fake-ass instalove, and everyone else, people who have no stake in Luce and Daniel's relationship, are fine with this. Gabbe and Molly die for no reason other than Luce and Daniel's selfishness. It's as if they think that their love is worth other people's lives, or it's worth destroying the world over.It isn't.There are things in this world that are more important than love. There are things that love ought to be forfeited for. If someone told me that I could either find true love or save another person's life, even just one other person, I'd choose the other fucking person. Nobody's relationship is worth other people's deaths, and I'm so tired of this trope in fiction. That love conquers all, or worse, that love is worth conquering all. It is not.Why did Daniel choose love over Heaven? He's like a kid who doesn't like beans or broccoli, so stamps his feet and wails that he wants neither, then complains later about being hungry. There's still absolutely no basis for their relationship. They don't know or particularly like each other; there's no sincerity between them. There's nothing fun about them. There was actually more chemistry between Lucifer and Lucinda the former.Just get this: Luce and Daniel's first meeting is before the Fall, when Luce, an angel (what a tragically weak reveal) is weeping in a meadow because her current love, Lucifer, is contemplating disobeying God. Luce literally looks at Daniel once, and then snap! They're in all consuming, self-sacrificing love. They don't even fucking know each other. They're just shallow fucks who cling on to each other because they're afraid of being alone.It turns out Luce loved Lucifer before she loved Daniel. Did anybody else feel bad for Lucifer most of all, or was that just me? I couldn't shake a feeling of sympathy for this guy. The funny thing is that Luce explains her leaving Lucifer for Daniel by saying that Lucifer was too controlling. This is literally how it's explained:"She began to fear him. He seemed to fear nothing, except her ever leaving him...he grew more possessive, more envious of her adoration of the Throne, telling Lucinda that if she truly loved him, Lucifer would be enough."How the hell is that any different to the way that Daniel treats Luce?It's hard to give a shit, though, it isn't it? After four books, Luce still has absolutely no personality. What does she like? What does she not like? What does her voice sound like? I don't know. She doesn't have one. She's just a sock puppet for all her lovers to wear on their hands and whisper sweet nothings to. She's an absolutely tragic character, but not in any sympathetic way. And yet, for some reason, Luce has had Daniel, Lucifer, Miles, Cam, Trevor and practically every Outcast running after her screaming to be loved. Why? She's absolutely inane. There is nothing appealing about her.Let's think. Katniss was strong, independent, flawed. She was fiercely protective and loyal. That's why Gale and Peeta loved her. Clary was proactive, funny, caring and a little clumsy, plus she'd do anything to keep her friends safe. That's why Jace loves her. Katsa was fierce, determined, loud and amazingly skilled, and when she was faced with a challenge, she never backed down. That's why Po loved her.Why does anybody love Luce? She's an empty vase. And Daniel? He's unkind, self-centered, chauvinistic and creepy. Daniel describes Luce as "brave" and "strong".How is Luce any of these things?She's absolutely transparent and pathetic.But all of this pales against the atrocity of page 340. It really was something else. It has to be seen to be believed. Page 340 may as well have just been line after line of block text reading FUCK YOU, HA HA, YOU SPENT MONEY ON THIS SHITE!I have never encountered such a glorious example of deus ex machina in my life. It washorrific. It's deus ex machina to end all deus ex machina. Luce is trying to talk Lucifer down, and the world is going to end, and the author doesn't know how to tie it up it so God appears and says "ENOUGH!" and then everything is fixed.I am not fucking kidding, guys. There's a huge unsolvable problem, and then God snaps her fingers and that's it. Everything is better.(God was portrayed as a woman here. Nice try, but you're not fooling anyone. Simply making God a woman doesn't make this series any less misogynistic.)It was disgusting. I'm actually infuriated by it, that for all of these pages, for four books, for all of the hours that I spent reading this series, this was the final confrontation: it's a shitstorm but God is sick of it so she snaps her fingers and it's all fixed. FUCK the fuck off. That's cheap, sad, and a total cop-out. What a pathetic, limp-dicked piece of storytelling.At the end of the day, why did I even bother withRapture? Because despite Luce and Daniel's frightening relationship, I was game to know how this all ended. I'd started to give a rat's ass about the secondary characters.Passionshowed some actual conviction in Luce's actions. Above all, I wanted this book to be a bright, shining five star-adventure. But it was, above all else, a fuckingFallennovel: terrible in its conception, sometimes decent in its technical aspects, good at secondary characters, headed by two of the absolute worst protagonists in literary history.The ending, by the way, was as good as it could be: to be together in their selfish little bubble, Daniel and Luce decide that they want to be reincarnated as human, and be free to live one last mortal life wherein they can be happy and at peace together. It was such a...nice? Strange? It was something. It was at least closure, a good way to wrap up the horror of the past 6000 years wherein Daniel repeatedly murdered Luce because he felt like kissing her.That's the point, though. That's the hurdle that I cannot clear. I just cannot and will not invest myself in Luce and Daniel. Every time I try it just makes me want to scream. Luce and Daniel have started a war and nearly destroyed the entire world because they want to kiss and stare into each other's eyes. Everyone is willing to sacrifice everything so that two people can be together. How unrealistic! How selfish of Luce and Daniel! In those 6000 years, why couldn't Daniel have just walked away? If he really loved Luce, he would have let her go instead of creeping around her, this ancient old weirdo who wants a quick fumble before she burns to death. Fucking scary, right?So that's it. The Fallen series is officially over. I have to admit, I'm glad it's done. Like Tom and Katie, it looms over us, spreading its shallow glory over all of our civilian faces, when on closer inspection it's nothing but a fucking train wreck.Auf wiedersehen, Luce and Daniel. It's been a slice.BONUS TIME!