Oh, man. I'm finding this book very difficult to write about. I really want to like this book. Before I was a librarian, I was a disability rights advocate; and of the many experiences that I had during those six years, one of the most intense and formative was supporting a young woman my age who had CP and was nonverbal. She was a client and then a friend, and much of our time together was spent supporting her to learn how to use a speech device to communicate in her own words. She passed away a few years ago, and I miss her. Our friendship, and the experience of supporting her to learn to speak using her own words, necessarily colors my reading of this book and others like it - so that's why I feel the need to include it in a book review. My family experience with disability in general and CP in particular changes my perspective too. It makes me an unobjective reader, and prone to judge the book on my own experiences - so of course, take my review with a grain or ten of salt. Please excuse any rambling!So as a reader, and in my librarian life, I frequently look for books for teens and kids that star characters with disabilities. There are truly wonderful ones (Rules) and terrible ones (So B. It). I particularly keep my eyes open for books that star characters with depth, complexity, and personhood, rather than ones that use people with disabilities as a foil or plot device acting on characters without disabilities. And I frequently get irritated at authors who write ridiculous, inauthentic portrayals of PWD (*cough* So B. It *cough*). I know that gifted authors can write anything -- whether or not it's close to their own life experience -- but I have found that for the most part, authors who write what they know about PWD rather than what they've gleaned from inaccurate pop-culture representations, tend to write better books.So when I heard about this book, shaped in part by Sharon Draper's own experience as the mother of a child with CP who is nonverbal, I had high hopes. Even though she's not writing about her daughter, her writing must be informed from her experiences - and in some ways, it's really successful. When Draper describes Melody's physical reactions -- really all the ways that everyone can see her from the outside -- it rings true. Her descriptions of Melody's physical reactions are pitch-perfect, as are the reactions she gets from many people around her, the special ed classrooms, and the incredibly frustrating nature of being confined to limited language. Clearly Draper has a lot of insight and an insider perspective that's valuable to us as readers. And she has a worthwhile agenda: she wants young readers to question their assumptions about PWD, including nonverbal people, and to recognize that Melody is brilliant, more than she appears, and underestimated.I think this is where the premise derails -- from the first page, really. The story is unapologetically didactic, but also stilted in its writing. Melody lacks complexity as a character -- she's brilliant in kind of an Encyclopedia Brown way, with a photographic memory, the ability to retain anything she learns, and perfect spelling. Unfortunately, she has about Encyclopedia's level of depth and well-roundedness as well.It's not just that this is unlikely -- that people's brains don't develop their neural pathways in quite that orthographic way without a lot of verbal and written practice, regardless of their intelligence. It takes a long, long time with a lot of practice to learn how to be fluent in verbal and written communication, whether you have a disability or not. It doesn't hold water - it's unrealistic and painfully hopeful.But let's assume that we accept Melody's Encylopedia-Brown-like reality, and suspend disbelief. If we believe that Melody has instant facility with spoken language -- or learned how to use a complex speech device in a single weekend without the support of a speech pathologist -- it makes no sense that Melody wouldn't have been able to communicate effectively with her family and peers. If she has access to even a low-tech letter board (which we know she does), with her perfect spelling and syntax she can communicate almost as effectively as a person who can speak. With a speech device that she can program and use fluently, and the will to use it and 24/7 access to it, she's unstoppable. It's impossible to believe that with such skills and involved parents, she would be so totally disenfranchised in her school and her life in general. Why is she in that isolated special ed classroom in 2010? Where is her IEP and her case worker? She has a 1:1 aide and an effective speech device -- clearly her parents have prevailed through MAJOR negotiations with insurance, school and state funders -- but isn't mainstreamed full-time? Where is her internet, for goodness sakes? It doesn't make any sense, in a real-world context. I could believe it if she had insurmountable barriers to communication, developmental delays, uninvolved or uninformed parents, or a school district that really stonewalled advocacy. Or even if she wasn't the world's best speller. I just can't believe it of her -- and I think it doesn't recognize the many nonverbal people who DO communicate and advocate for themselves effectively despite massive physical impairments. People type out Morse Code with their heels, use a head switch, or use a single working finger to access speech devices.The book felt like Julie Anne Peters's books to me: yes, the issues in her books DO arise for many LGBTQ youth. Is it realistic that they'd happen to her characters in that way? Not so much.Oh dear. I could go on about my thoughts on this book for a long time, and I don't mean to disrespect Ms. Draper's intelligence, experience, and hard work as an author. The book shines in the authenticity of its "shown" rather than "told" details - it's in those moments that it rises above the didactic and flat elements of the story. I wish we'd had more moments like those, and I appreciate that they were there.