I feel a bit heartless.After reading all the Newbery-hype aboutOut of My Mind, I went into it expecting an absolutely life-changing book about cerebral palsy. After reading Ben Mikaelsen's horrendousPeteythis past spring, I was certain Draper's treatment of the subject would be leaps and bounds above that drivel.It is. And it isn't. (Mostly it is.)Unlike my feelings aboutPetey, my emotions about this book are mixed - in the strictest sense of the word. For every element of the book I enjoyed there was something I abhorred.Good:Melody's characterization is a real eye-opener. She leaps off the page, and there are moments that feel as if she is in a room with you, telling her story. Whether it was the bold-faced font that indicates her 'speaking voice' or her vivid dissecting of the actions of those around her, she is a masterpiece of character development. Her interactions with Ms. V. are particularly heartfelt, especially in the opening chapters of the books when the details of their complex relationship are unveiled.Bad:As an educator, I am appalled by the portrayal of teachers in this book. Cold-hearted, nasty, lax disciplinarians... there's even a ruthless streak in the history teacher, Mr. Dimming, that's almost caricature-like. This man not only tolerates the taunts of class bullies Claire and Molly (only combating their nastiness once, and in a simpering manner at that), he himselfparticipatesin the bullying. Despite being painted as "nice", both the music and English teachers also fail to discipline the mean girls effectively, neither of them attempting toteachthe little brats why their behavior is unacceptable and will not be tolerated. Additionally, the special education "teachers" are absurd. In an era of litigation and compulsory inclusion, the professionals who populate H-5 (with the exception of Mrs. Shannon) would have been fired within the first week of school. Despite having been an English teacher for 25 years, Draper seems to have a chip on her shoulder with those in the profession.Good:Melody is super-smart, and though other reviewers have found that to be a bit of a stretch, I think it's an extremely salient distinction for Draper to make. It's human nature, I think, to assume that those with physical disabilities are somehow mentally disabled as well. That this book gracefully navigates those waters is vitally important, and I think young readers need to have that information... thatprejudice... presented to them compassionately, handled with dignity. Draper really succeeds here, because she triggers enough emotional reactions to inspire children to question their own actions around their classmates and to evaluate their own prejudices. There's a particularly powerful scene between Melody and a crewmember at a local television station. Lump, meet throat.Bad:The twoBIG EVENTSat the end. I'm sorry. Both of these ridiculous plot contrivances are what dropped the book down to three stars. The first is predictable and mean-spirited (and further reinforces what a terrible person and incompetent educator Mr. Dimming is). The second, which is foreshadowed in Chapter 19 like a Sledgehammer of Obvious, is completely pointless. Was it designed to make Melody worry about her sister's normality? Was it supposed to draw the family closer together? I have no idea. It felt very last second.Good:Melody's comeuppance in the end. The trophy and abrupt exit were classic. And her loving revisiting of the characters who populate room H-5? Also incredible. Even though they're flat characters, through Melody's eyes, they are powerful examples of human potential.Bad:The verb tenses! Sweet God, they were all over the place! Past tense until chapter 10. Then present tense. But only for a chapter. Then it's back to past tense. Then present a few chapters later. Initially I thought, "Hmm. Maybe these are flashbacks." But no. Sometimes we get Melody recounting an event, sometimes we are with her when an event occurs. It's very jarring. Also, Draper's phrasings aresooutdated, it's embarrassing. "The bomb"? Is it 1994?And the ending? Those final paragraphs? Lazy. Lazy, lazy, lazy.So. WillOut of My Mindwin the Newbery? I'm not sure. I still haven't read the other hyped books.Will it win the Schneider? Probably. In fact, it should.