Melody's the smartest kid in school, with so many things to say, but she can't because she's diagnosed with cerebral palsy leaving her unable to voice any of her thoughts. When her school starts an inclusion program where the special needs kids can join classrooms and get a chance to interact with others, Melody gets a teacher named who runs the Whiz Kids Quiz team. In his class, she meets two girls who are uncomfortable with her and so they start making crude comments; making sure she hears them. Melody befriends a girl named Rose who isn't afraid of standing up to others and helping her. When she hears that there are try-outs for the Whiz Kids Quiz team, her neighbour, her parents and her special aids helper encourages her to try out for the quiz team. She makes the team and leads the team to victory in their regional competition. The prize of winning the regional competition is competing in Washington, D.C. When they see the newspapers, on the front page is a picture of Melody; not the team, just Melody. The other members of the quiz team don't appreciate that. When Melody and her parents arrive at the airport, they find out that their flight is cancelled and the other kids had already left. She felt hurt that none of them bothered to tell her that they had an earlier flight. The next day, when Melody and her mother is about to leave for school, only Melody sees Penny, her little sister, running out of the house. She tries to warn her mother not to drive but the car ends up hitting Penny and she's hospitalized. When Melody arrives at school, the members of the quiz team try to apologize. She turns away from them to show that she doesn't need the people who abandoned her.I picked this book because many people have recommended it to me.I finished this book because I was curious as to if she would make the quiz team, if the team would win at the regional competition and also if they would win at the national competition in Washington, D.C.I think people who like to read realistic-fiction would like this book because it talks about real problems and disabilities that anyone can be diagnosed with or have.