I read in the introduction that Kosinski was attacked on several occasions by Polish nationals after publishing this novel. This because it's a merciless mockery and indictment of Polish Catholics and in particular the peasantry. In the 19th century literature tended to romanticise rural communities. A stance that rarely quite rings true nowadays. This novel perhaps exaggerates to the other extreme. However, one of the most memorable images in The Shoah documentary is the Polish farmer showing how he warned the Jews heading for Treblinka of their imminent fate. He makes a throat slitting gesture and then shows all his teeth in a wide grin. In that moment you realise he wasn't warning those Jews at all; he was mocking them. It's a sad fact that the populations of Germany's enemies often implemented Nazi policy much more comprehensively and enthusiastically than Nazi allies. Italy for example has a much better record than Poland (or France for that matter) for its behaviour towards Jews. By all accounts there was little racism in Italy. There are several cases of the Carabinieri destroying a population census in a district rather than handing it over to the Nazis. Italians hid Jews; there are virtually no cases of them betraying them for cash. I read recently that the Gestapo received tens of thousands of letters from French civilians denouncing Jews. Poland has perhaps the worst record of all. If you were a Jew in Poland, you had an enemy on the other side of virtually every wall.I don't know any details of Kosinski's wartime experiences. Clearly they left him embittered and hating the country of his birth. However, he was a Polish Jew and survived so must have had help from Christian Poles. A subtext of this novel is the importance of formal education. The Polish peasantry are characterised as uncouth ignoramuses, medieval in their religious beliefs and philosophy. Witchcraft is still the prevailing belief system.But this is a novel, not a memoir, and should be evaluated as such. As a novel it has flaws, a couple of them fatal in my view. The Painted Bird is a very episodic novel. In fact, it's sometimes like the same short story written over and over again. This is certainly one flaw. There's also a sense that Kosinski gets carried away with his fascination for sadistic brutality. At times it reads like Holocaust porn, horror piled upon horror with a sense he's rather enjoying himself and inviting us to share his voyeuristic fascination. Less is more is a concept that completely escapes him. He piles on the atrocities, especially those of a sexual nature and it begins to make for very uncomfortable reading. Not because one is shocked; rather that one is embarrassed on the author's behalf by his obsessive fascination for depravity. This is particularly evident in a chapter when Ukrainian mercenaries terrorise a village. The acts these men subject the villagers to become almost comical in their escalating depravity. It's like the Marquis de Sade meets Monty Python. In fact you sense the novel's popularity was fed by all the perverted sex in its pages rather than as any kind of moving dramatization of the Holocaust. It's a shame because he writes very well and at times offers subtle and memorable insights into the dark side of human nature. Also, as an act of catharsis I dare say it provided benefits for him and you certainly can't begrudge him that. But it probably would have been a better novel had he waited until he was less avid to shock his readers. The Holocaust is shocking; we don't need anyone to exaggerate how shocking it was, even if with a mischievous ironical twinkle in the eye.