The night before last, I fell asleep holding my laptop, while on the couch. I could have sworn I had saved my work, which just so happened to be a review for this book, but upon logging onto Goodreads today I noticed that I did not have a review forThe Painted Bird. Every time I am certain I have everything planned out in terms of writing and posting reviews, I do something stupid, such as falling asleep with my computer. Sadly, falling asleep while contemplating and discussing a book does not bode well for my opinion of the book but before you read any further, I by no means wish to discourage anyone from picking up this one of a kind novel.I was bored at times, becoming lost in the extreme violence, graphic descriptions of torture and sexual acts, and in what semblence of story progression that existed. I also experienced huge problems connecting with the main character, a six-year-old boy. I have a six-year-old boy, so I like to think I have a basic understanding of the average developmental stage for the age, which not mesh with this book. I found it difficult to imagine the main character in such a setting and that the majority of the people he met were only interested in hurting him. This novel is not about a bad case of indifference, as is most often found in books about World War II and the Holocaust. This book is about hate and sadism, about evil born out of poverty and ignorance. Maybe this reflects more about me than the book, but I find it impossible to believe that the main character could encounter so much active and persistent evil. Maybe if the book had followed a young man or adult, the story would be more believable, barely. I just have this inclination to believe that people are less likely to harm a child. This book is saying that because he was a child, he was harmed more. His age, naivety, and innocence certainlyallowedpeople increased opportunities to prey upon him but I just can not believe that these qualitiesencouragedthe abuse on the scale found in this story.The Painted Birdwas ridiculous, at times, in its extremes. If half of the atrocities had been edited out, then I would have found the story much more compelling and terrifying. Please excuse the horrible pun, but the entire novel felt like overkill. Yet maybe this was the author's intention. Holding back on the amount of evil was not a characteristic of events of this period in history. So maybe I am considering this novel from too much of a literal perspective. The fact that I am unsure of the author's intentions bothers me. I tend to be unconcerned if my interpretation of a book is backwards from the intentions of the author. Once a book is published, the equivalent of releasing the work into the wild, an author must be open to personal interpretation but this book does not really allow for that in my opinion. The story is straightforward and predictable and full of pointless violence, at times. Is the author commenting on the effect of immense abuse? On the will to survive? Xenophobia? Does the author provide any cause and effect? Do we see how the events in this book have shaped the boy?(view spoiler)[We do, slightly, towards the very end. This was not enough for me(hide spoiler)].I feel a good historical novel should scream the whole bit about those who forget history are doomed to repeat it. This book did no such thing. It more or less screamedabuse!, molestation!, torture!, assault!, murder!, bestiality!, war!,....come and find it within these pages!....on and on and on, rather akin to a circus act. Every physical hurt you can concieve of, with little mention of the mental and emotional backlash. I guess the reader is meant to understand that the inner emotional pain exists, just not enough for me. There was a bit involving the contemplation of good, evil, religion, and lack of faith, and though I really liked these parts of the book, I still feel that the inner workings of the boy's mind were glossed over.The book tends to focus on sensationalistic violence. There is zero dialogue, something I did not notice at first but bothered me once I did. I did love how the author worked in the superstitious and local beliefs, especially concerning Gypsies and traditional remedies. The book felt as more of a manual, full of instructions on how-to-become-a-successful-witch-by-casting-curses-while-traveling-through-the-Polish-countryside. I also immensely enjoyed the Red Army scenes. All of the historical aspects of the book were quite entertaining.Learning about the author has also been interesting. He was accused of plagiarism, which always sparks my interest for some odd reason, and he was not a favorite of the critics, which endears him to me more than not. He seemed to be an immensely intelligent man and his suicide the fodder of cult followings. I agree with other reviews mentioning the lack of sophistication of the writing inThe Painted Bird, largely due to the predominantly juvenile tone. It was not until the last few pages that I realized the author meant to do this, maybe an attempt to allow readers to better connect with the main character. I really do not care if this is the case, as it did not work, and I read the entire book wondering why the writing felt overly simple. Realizing at the end that it was intentional and that I am too simple to pick up on the fact does not improve my feelings for the book. These types of story qualities should be effortless and conveyed seemlessly, without the reader even noticing. I want to become lost in my books, not Miss Analytical.When I enter the stage of making excuses for a book, of trying to explain thewhyswith manywhat-ifsand/orprobablies, then it tends to reflect an unsatisfied overall feeling. A seemless and stellar read means that I become so very lost that I do not notice anything about the book, nothing at all, except for what it makes me feel. A book about the things I've already mentioned should have me sobbing. I generally do not read Holocaust books as I can not tolerate the imagery but I did not develop enough of a connection to warrant massive reactions with this book. There was one scene that nearly did me in but it was not about the main character. It was about another boy. I set the book aside for nearly a week after this scene but once I returned, I wanted the entire thing to end. Even after all of my comments, I will still probably read more by this author. I have heard that his voice changes rather dramatically from book to book, so maybe a second attempt is worth my time.