When I rate a book three stars, it usually means indifference, that the book was neither especially good or bad. That I probably won't even remember it in a few days time. WithPushing the Limitsthat is not the case, it's more that I feel the positives and negatives equally balance each other out and the overall book falls somewhere in the middle of the rating scale because of it. I will say, though, the issues that I felt sure I'd have with it were not the reason I gave it such an average rating.I approached this young adult romance with the caution I always approach young adult romance novels with. Plus an extra shot of it because of the bad boy/good girl cliche we are promised. As far as these types of cliched stories go, I'd sayPushing the Limitsis one of the best and is far better than those ofSimone Elkeles. I personally think McGarry has written a great debut and the novel would have fully achieved excellence had she not played in the safe zone and used the same old format and character types. Everything was a little too predictable. However, I see enough promise here to want to try her next novel -Dare You To- and see if Beth's story can avoid the same mistakes (based on her character, I think it might).So... bad boys. Just a few years ago, I wouldn't have hesitated to say that I love a bad boy. The kind of man who promises a wild adventure with his smile, and exciting sexcapades with a raise of his eyebrow. But the definition of this sexy creature has changed, or perhaps it was always the same and I just didn't notice it as much... but either way, a "bad boy" is now someone like Patch Cipriano fromHush, Hushand others like him, men or boys who push women around, attempt to control them, become violent when they don't get their own way. Noah Hutchins is nothing like that. Noah is what I mean when I say "bad boy", he is fun and likes to break a few rules, but he always respects Echo's wishes, he is kind to her and - you won't believe it - actually leaves her alone when she metaphorically gives him the finger.To get down to the real problem, it is quite simply: the angst. McGarry is a good enough author to realise that she needs to give her characters issues and imperfections (especially if they're going to be of the cliche variety). But I didn't think the execution of either character dealing with their problems was done well, it felt a bit messy, a lot melodramatic, and it was all wrapped up in what I felt was a rather unsatisfactory way. I also think the sizzling chemistry quickly gave way to the usual romantic natterings of the deeply forever in luuurrrve. Don't get me wrong, I wanted Echo and Noah to be together right up to the last minute, but I would have preferred a little less "I love you more than anything in the world, baby". There's only so many times calling someone "baby" is cute.In the end, this book had two characters with amazing chemistry who I genuinely cared about. They were flawed and interesting, but there was too much doom, gloom and angsting going on. Some parts were sad until I passed through the sadness and into eye-rolling territory. I feel conflicted about the novel as a whole, but I do believe in the author's potential. Let's see where she goes from here.