Buddy read with Mini-me!Ok. So thisisn'tmy kind of book. There is literallynothingabout the blurb that would tempt me to read something like this of my own free will. Unless this chick sported some mutant powers, came from another planet, or fought vampires in her spare time? No.Everything...everything...about this story sounds sappy and gross.Gonna have to give it a HARD pass.And let me go ahead and apologize to all the people who feel marginalized or disgusted at the way this book treated such a serious subject as this girl'sillness. &lt;--I get it. Not cool.However.MyEverythingis the 12 year old little girl pictured above, and after seeing the trailer to the movie, she asked me to read this with her.I know what you're thinking:But Anne, you have 4 kids! How canthatone mean everything to you.I don't know! I love each one of them withallmy heart. There's no science that can explain it, but it's true. Each one is the center of my entire world, each one is my favorite, and each of one of them is the best thing that ever happened to me.Why?Because I said so.It's Mom Logic. You don't argue with that shit.Anyway.She's always been myreluctant reader, so it wouldn't have mattered what the hell this was about, there was no way I was turning this opportunity down.So. Here I am, reviewingEverything, Everything.sighWarning: SpoilersSo this is basically a sugary Nicholas Sparks-lite romance for teens. Minus the horrifying endings that come with most of his books...Which is exactly what I thought it would be, and exactly why my 12 year oldlooooooovedit. And that's FINE.I mean, the only thing that I really thought wasgreatabout the story was the length. I was able to finish it in a day, which was a HUGE bonus because I'd promised her that I would read the damn thingbeforewe saw the movie in the theater.Cha-ching!Slid in under the wire, just in time to sit through an hour and a half of teenage kissy face and fade to black sex.The ending is pretty controversial, but until I'd read some of the reviews, I really didn't understand why. Mainly, because I don't read shit like this. Ever.But I suppose it should have been marketed as a 'Mama's Fucking Crazy' story instead of a 'Sick Chick Falls In Love' story. Personally, I liked the fact that she wasn'treallyill.And here's why:I got to lean over to my daughter during the movie and whisper,"See?! THAT'S what a bad mom looks like! I'm not looking so evil for not buying you those (f-ing overpriced!) shoes now, am I?"Damn straight.Ok. And this was theCOOLESTpart of the whole experience. After we left the theater, she turned to me and said the four little words I've been dying to hear her say for years:The book was better.Anyway, my kid gave it5 OMG-IT-WAS-AMAZING!stars.I'm giving it3 OMG-MY-DAUGHTER-VOLUNTARILY-READ-A-BOOK!stars.