3 Stars. Unfortunately, I was a little let down by Everything Everything. I have heard people raving about it since 2015, I've been dying to read it since 2015. I can't exactly tell if it was just overhyped (by others and myself) or if the book just all around was not the best for me.The overarching positive thing I have to say about this book is that it was entertaining. Although I wasn't 100% satisfied with the story as a whole, I wanted to keep reading. It was addicting and amusing, and it was an enjoyable read. Also, we get a main character who is biracial (African American/Japanese). Biracial characters don't always get their own stories in YA, so I was glad to see some positive representation on this front.I also really liked Olly and Maddie together. I thought they complimented each other well. Olly was always looking out for Maddie's best interests and was respectful and attentive to her needs. These are the types of love interests we need in YA and I was happy to see them together.That being said, I was irked by quite a lot of this book. Firstly, I felt there was way too much of a focus on romance being Maddie's drive to "truly live." I was very happy that at certain points, Maddie wanted to go outside for herself, to not feel restricted, and to be free. I may not agree with some of the risks Maddie took with her perceived condition, but if there was a reason for her to take those risks, a sense of taking control of your life and living for *you* is what I was glad to see. Unfortunately, I felt at a lot of time, that individual desire was overshadowed by a desire for love. There are so many points in this book where Maddie relays to Oly that she(view spoiler)[ "never would have gone outside if it wasn't for him", "wanted Olly to have a girlfriend who could do the same things as him" etc.(hide spoiler)]I felt that there was too much of a focus on the presence of Olly shaping Maddie's decisions, and at times her personal discovery was overshadowed by her love for him. I left this book, not with the message that you should live your life to the fullest, but that Maddie was okay with sacrificing her personal health for love, and that's something I'm vehemently against. Had there been a focus on Maddie accepting she made risky decisions for Olly and that she had a new-found desire to make those decisions for herself only, I would have been more okay with it. But whatever efforts were made to squash the idea that "putting yourself at risk is romantic" were not strong enough for me to condone those actions.(This section technically constitutes as "spoilers" so I'll hide it, but if you've seen the trailer or know what decisions of Maddie's that I'm talking about, you won't be spoiled.)(view spoiler)[ I was somewhat appalled at how little Maddie seemed concerned for her health when she was outside and went to Hawaii?? Let me be clear that I do not have SCID, I have no experience with SCID or other medical disabilities, so what I'm saying here is HELLA IREELEVANT and just my personal interpretation. AKA I'm not attempting to speak for people with conditions like SCID. But I was truly in shock that Maddie did not often make enough comments, even to herself, about the impending risk of getting ill and dying? This girl has spent her entire life being told she has a high probability of dying if she goes outside. Yet she is in an entirely new environment, swimming in the ocean, in contact with people she has never met, eating new foods, wearing new textiles. I just could not understand how this girl could not be nervous 24/7 about getting sick when she has spent her life being told everything she is currently doing will potentially make her sick. It honestly took away a huge chunk of the authenticity of the story and felt entirely unrealistic in my opinion, but again, I have no experience with this matter, so maybe my perception is skewed and Maddie had fully reasonable reactions to her new experiences.(hide spoiler)]Now we get to the issues with representation and research regarding SCID, which I'm not qualified to talk about, but feel it's important to address regardless.*I am incapable of accurately describing the issues of representation in Everything Everything.I read a review from Disability in Kidlit which wonderfully expressing why this book is harmful to people with disabilities. It spoils the ending for those of you that have not read it, but I feel it's an extremely well written review and I'd really recommend checking it out:http://disabilityinkidlit.com/2015/09...I've heard in passing that Nicola Yoon has addressed the issues in Everything Everything, but I'm unable to find any credible sources. If she has, that's great because 90% of authors do not do that.Overall, I liked Everything Everything. I had fun reading it. I liked the characters. I enjoyed the story. But I had a lot of issues with it, some deeper than I can personally convey. I personally prefer The Sun Is Also A Star and I would definitely read more from her in the future, but I just don't think Everything Everything lived up to my expectations.