This coming of age novel is an important American classic because:1) It is the precursor for the bigger and more important Mark Twain novel,The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.2) It is a historical fiction giving readers a glimpse of the laid back town's life in the mid to late 19th century. The town is called St. Petersburg that is based on Hannibal, Missouri, the hometown of Mark Twain. This book is basically a satire of the customs and superstitions that Americans practiced and believed during that time. Reading this is like watching an old black and white movie and appreciating how lives were lived in that part of the world during the time when Filipinos over here in my country were being maltreated by our Spanish colonizers.3) During that time, slave owning was legal in that part of Mississippi river and although this novel, unlike "Huckleberry Finn," does not tackle black slavery head on but only as a backdrop, if you analyze the character ofInjun Joe,he being a half-Indian, half-White, seems to foreshadow the racial issue depicted in "Huckleberry Finn."4) Mark Twain (Samuel Langhorn Clemens 1835-1910) made a breakthrough in the American literary scene with this book. There would not have been two "Tom Sawyer" sequels and "Huckleberry Finn" that is considered asThe Great American Novelif this book was not written first.However, given the 4 reasons above, the book is first and foremost about a teenage boyTom Sawyerparticularly his gradual albeit erratic transformation from an immature mischievous boy to that of an conscientious adult. It is also about telling the truth even if it can cause your life. It is also about teenage love and what teenagers have to go through to discover the joys and pains of first love. Notice that these areuniversal truths.What you see happening in this book, published in 1876, is still what we are still seeing around us now. That makes this book still relevance to everyone.I love this book and can't wait to continue reading its sequel and said to be the more important one,The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.Huck is in this book but his character is of course not the main course. He is an orphan and the son of the town's drunkard. Tom Sawyer envies him because he is cool and he can do anything he wants without punishment. He appears mysterious and I think he will be stripped of this mysteriousness in the next book.In terms of reading, the book is not really an easy read because of the many colloquial terms that Mark Twain used. I found myself shuffling between the text and the appendix to find out words and phrases being used in that part of American during the 19th century. It slowed down my reading but at the end, it was all worth it.I am happy to finally have read a Mark Twain book. I say: more, more, more.