I finally did it. I stayed up late last night and I read the f****ingFight Club. Normally, Chuck Palahniuk really pisses me off with his initially engaging and fantastically original stories which all too quickly turn into misguided ramblings about a bunch of asshole caricatures with preposterous lines like "we need to get you laid, brother" to signal the beginning of a plot twist (and the end of you thinking that particular novel is going to be any good). However, I must say thatFight Clubwas pretty solid. I enjoyed it from start to finish, thought the timing and character development to be quite good, and found myself actually relating to the narrator on a certain level.Iwill, however, state the obvious and say that David Fincher took something good and made it stupendous. In short, the movie is actually better, but not by as much as I thought it would be. I don't want to spoil the party so I won't elaborate, but I did find the book's ending to be a bit disappointing in comparison to Fincher's version.However, there was one element that the film essentially stripped from the story which I was pleased to find fully intact in the novel: Marla Singer actually has a personality. Marla Singer is smart. Marla Singer has hobbies and passions, vices and idiosyncrasies, Marla Singer has a FAMILY, Marla Singer has street smarts and people smarts and general smart smarts. Basically, Marla Singer is more than just an impoverished, codependent, bipolar nymphomaniac who is only around to make weird goth-girl quotes, grab mens' nuts, smoke cigarettes, shop at thrift stores, screw all night, and then whine and cry when her fuck-buddy acts like a fuck-buddy and shows her no love. Thankfully, though the figure in the film is still an interesting character in her own depressed, nihilistic way, the portrait which Palahniuk paints is much more richly detailed, and offers a greater explanation for Marla's behavior than the film ever even ATTEMPTS to offer. In doing so, the novel actually makes sense in explaining why this quirky girl is something worth causing a whole lot of trouble for, such as blowing half of your face off or ratting out a worldwide, powerful, underground militia of men who all know your face and feel obliged to chop your nuts off for doing so. And I mean chopping you nuts off AT BEST. Come ON...even Robin Hood wouldn't do that for just anyone.Also, Palahniuk writes the dynamic between Marla and the narrator as much more amiable and balanced (though certainly still laced with sarcasm) than the male-slanted power dynamic presented in the film (dominant, powerful sex-machine male vs submissive female sex toy.) Despite the fact that Tyler does not know that they are lovers, he still treats her AS A FRIEND, further explaining why she sticks around for all the madness rather than telling him to get bent. So she's not a complete sucker, and he's not a completely chauvinist pig.