Funny story: I'm trying to shelve this book, and can't remember if it had been banned (but I thought it had - google confirmed). At the same time, my friend Allison and I are chatting on Google Chat, and she starts ranting about how ridiculous book banning is (an opinion with which I agree wholeheartedly). Anyway, the conversation went like this:me: Is Holes a banned book? I can't rememberallison: dunno... the whole concept of banned books is stupid. I mean, you could find a reason to gripe about any bookme: yes, I agreeallison: I think The Replacement should be banned because there is a scene talking about knives in the kitchenallison: VIOLENCEme: haha just waitallison: and he sits on his roofallison: DANGEROUS BEHAVIORallison: RECKLESSme: He says the F word, and there are BOOBIES!allison: PORNOGRAPHYme: IMMORALITY!allison: lolallison: or you could go the other way and be totally ridiculousallison: Holes doesn't directly support a gay lifestyleallison: BAN ITme: But it does...allison: oh well then uh...me: all those boys are in and out of holes all day longNeedless to say, there was laughter. Sometimes I crack myself up.Anyway, all witty repartee aside, I really liked this book. I have no idea why it would have been banned unless it was because a kid hits a jerk in the face with a shovel for being a complete ass to him day in and day out? That's probably it. ENCOURAGING VIOLENT BEHAVIOR AND DISRESPECT FOR AUTHORITY! BAN IT!I loved Stanley, but in all truth, I loved Zero more. He was the star of this show for me. I wanted everything to work out for him, and I was on pins and needles worrying about him when things started to go bad for him. I mean, these kids committed crimes, or at least they were accused of committing crimes, but they weren't BAD or EVIL. Punishment is one thing, but the kind of things that these kids were made to do is nothing short of abuse. And what's sad is that probably isn't a far stretch from what really happens - although probably for different reasons.I enjoyed how the three different storylines all came together in this one, and seeing the little bits of each one felt like discovering a gem. I'd have this, "OH!" moment each time something was revealed that linked something else... Really fun to read.I really enjoyed this one, and I look forward to seeing the movie soon, since I hear from Allison that it's fabulous. :)