"All I remember about my mother," Nibs told them, "is that she often said to my father, 'Oh how I wish I had a cheque-book of my own!'"Now doesn't that just encapsulate the status of the Edwardian woman? Absurdly, this line - that a child's sole memory of his mother is of her mourning the fact that she was not entitled to her own cheque-book - utterly chills me.The tale starts out promisingly: it's charmingly written, full of warm humour and undeniably original. But then the narrative becomes progressively outlandish (and misogynistic and colonialist, of course) and perturbing. Peter's definition of 'an adventure' entails nothing less than callous murder. Also bearing in mind that Peter is, like, what?Six?! Surprisingly, there is no true conflict - whatever tension arises is quickly belied by the pantomime villain lacking anyrealmotive. Mind you, I think we all have those days where we'd like to skewer that child throwing a temper tantrum.It's somewhat disturbing how casuallyPeter Panperpetuates misogynistic views throughout. It's also startlingly colonialist. Perhaps Barrie's intentions were vaguely honourable: paying homage to the importance of a strong maternal relationship to a child's development. But a strong paternal figure is crucial, too! Whilst Mrs Darling is, quite simply, too good to be true (flirtatious and brimming with love), Mr Darling isludicrous. He 'feeds' a dog medicine for fun and then sleeps in the kennel in repentance. The other women in the story are archetypal and hardly inspiring. Wendy is subservient, unambitious and perfectly content in a stifling domestic role - Barrie casually comments how, most days, she never even leaves thehousein Neverland, busy slaving away over the pots and pans. Our second option is Tinker Bell, a malicious and jealous diva, leaving only the 'savage' and silent Tiger Lily. Hmm. It's important to remember that the entire plot ofPeter Panrelies on mothers being subservient housewives, at the beck and call of unruly children.Disappointing, especially since I so enjoyed the first third. WhilstPeter Panis certainly problematic, it's fundamentally unengaging. The language is repetitive and the plot is never quite compelling. I skim-read from the halfway mark. It is also worth mentioning that I don't feel equipped to criticize this in an intellectual or academic facet. WatchJen Campbell's analysisand have your mind blown!