I am not aNicholas Sparksfan. I like my love stories with a little more pizzazz, wit and humour. I want the heroines to be headstrong and dripping with pithy comebacks. I expect the heroes to be unassuming to begin with and memorable by the time I shut the book. And most of all, I want...no, I DEMAND a happy ending. So, keeping all these requirements in mind,A Walk To Rememberis not my cup of tea.And yet, dare I use a dreadful pun? The books had it's occasional*sparks*. It helped that I read the book and watched the movie based on it simultaneously.In a nutshell, the book is about the quintessential bad boy falling for the Reverend's holier-than-thou daughter. It's about cheekyLandon Carterlosing his heart to the angelicJamie Sullivan. It's about one glorious summer in the lives of two teenagers and their journey to a heart-breaking end.Shane Westplays Landon Carter in the movie. With the angular thrust of his eyebrows and his devilish smile, Shane West was better than the paperback Landon.Mandy Mooreplays the parish's golden girl, Jamie Sullivan. Let's just say that paperback Jamie was better than the celluloid one.Amalgamating the two sources, I give you my favourite moments:Spark #1:This may seem like a very pompous thing for Jamie to say, but taken into context with what her future holds....it's poignant.Spark #2:There's something endearing about the way Shane West nuzzles Mandy Moore's shoulder. It was symbolic of how hormones were not the governing factor in their relationship. And it helps that it was Shane West doing the shoulder-nuzzle.Spark #3:The last line wasn't in the book. But it was a perfect addition. Bible carrying Jamie Sullivan was the girl brimming with faith in God's plan. Falling in love with Landon throws a curve ball that makes Jamie vulnerable.Spark #4:A version of Jamie's favourite passage from the Corinthians that she would have liked to be read out at her wedding. And whichdoesget read at her wedding. It was also, pretty much, the essence of Jamie Sullivan.Spark #5:This line sounds super-cheesy but considering the fact that Reverend Hegbert spent a good part of the book disapproving of Landon Carter and his heathen ways, it was pretty special for Landon to hear this at the end of the story.So yes, the book is not for those who want a fast-paced read. It's not for those who don't want their religion thrust in their faces. And give it a miss if you don't fancy bittersweet endings.But, if you want a change of pace; if you want to imagine an entirely likeable Shane West as the appropriately cast Landon Carter falling fathoms deep in love; if you want to just savour a different facet of love....then this book (and movie) is the one for you.