Let me get out of the way my biases. I grew up in Arkansas on the east side in the flat farm lands. This story is set in the west side of the state in the Ozarks. I am not overly fond of the local accent and Wilson Rawls does a fantastic job with the dialogue. It made me feel like I was back in the area. The other Bias I have is against the word 'coon. I can't stand that for some reason. I mean it makes my skin crawl. The proper word is Raccoon. That is the name. This book spends the entire book talking about 'coons. I wanted to drop kick it at points if I had to hear that word again.My final bias is, if you didn't know, I am a tree hugger. Yes, I love the glories of a beautiful tree, especially a giant tall beauty that holds hundreds of years of the Earth's memories in it. One of the first hunting scenes with the dogs is a raccoon was treed in the giant and biggest sycamore tree in the valley. It stood above them all. This is the moment Wilson decides to make Man vs Nature and Billy decides he made a promise to his dogs so of course he has to cut the tree down. There is a whole chapter devoted to him chopping this tree down. It caused me physical pain. All because his boy wants a silly raccoon. He can't tree it later. I was rip-roaring mad. I spit and I was cursing during this scene. I mean it. My blood was boiling and I almost quit the book.The tree falls, the dogs rip apart the raccoon and that's it. Billy feels guilty about it, well whoopty-do. They didn't try and use the wood or sell the wood, oh no, they left the thing to rot. I could see cutting down a small tree, maybe since they live in a wood, but cutting down the giant - oh, I wanted to do something. I know this happens everyday and I can't be around it. I also know a tree has consciousness of it's own and it's sad to cut them for no reason and nut honor them in some way. It was sacrilege. It was because it was such a huge plot point that it really colored the story for me.OK, that is now out of the way. So, the characters were very well done for who they were. Billy's mother needed to have more control over him. Letting Billy roam the woods all night long with mountain lions around - crazy.I did love the legend of the Red fern from the Indians.The book sets it up well, so that the reader connects with the dogs and Billy and cares about them in my opinion. The end really rips your heart out.I like the theme of belief and doubt that is going on. About the pains of life and searching for understanding in things we don't understand and aren't fair. I do think this was very well written with a strong story arch. Billy learns a lot about life during this time of his life. It's a very well written book I think, even if it drives me crazy. I am surprised it didn't win the Newbery. I don't get how it works.I was so caught up in the story at the end that I didn't even notice the word 'coon. It is a great ending. I don't really get why people would want to hunt raccoon's, but I guess they did and ok. Just don't cut down the big trees.I think this is an excellent work of fiction for middle grade readers and above. My biases get in the way of more stars. It really is a story for boys or anyone who likes hunting. It's not a story for me, although I can appreciate Billy's journey. It should have more stars, but I can give it 3. There are too many buttons pushed for me to give it more at this point.I did see the movie in my childhood, so I did know this was going to tug at my heart. It still has the power to do that, so it's still doing something right. It is a timeless tale in many ways.