If Thornton Wilder'sThe Bridge of San Luis Rey(1927) is about a bridge that fell down and killed 5 people, Katherine Paterson'sBridge to Terabithia(1977) is about a bridge that is put upbecauseofaperson's death.In this children's book, American novelist Katherine Paterson (born 1932) created a make believe world ofTerabithiawhose name she unconsciously coined from C. S. Lewis'The Voyage of the Dawn Treaderwhere Lewis has an island calledTerebinthia. However she added that Lewis probably based his island's name fromTerebinthtree in the Holy Bible so they bothpinched from somewhere else, probably unconsciously.Anyways, enough about the name. It's just that I was asked twice already about the meaning of the title of the book that I reviewed so it is becoming part of my psyche to always ask myself the meaning of the title after reading the book especially if the reason is not clear or obvious.The story, set in a small town in the US, is about two lonely 10 year olds,Jesse AaronsandLeslie Burkewho find each other's company enjoyable because they are different from the rest of the grade schoolers. Jesse is fond of drawing and he feels unappreciated. Leslie comes from the city, reads a lot of children's fantasy books (her parents are writers) and does not have TV set at home. Before Leslie transfers to Jesse's school, he (Jesse) is the fastest runner. So, their friendship starts with jealousy (because Leslie runs faster than Jesse) and hate but they end up as king and queen of Leslie's make believe world of Terabithia.Sweet story. I am not surprised that even young adults in their teens, 20's and even 30's find this book amazing and rate it with 5 stars. It brings back memories of make-believe worlds when we were young. Especially for those who are in their early 20's and starting their careers,welcome to the real world, dudes!. No more allowances from parents and you have to scrimp yourselves with what you earn. Since you are starting, your salary is ,eager but you are ashamed to ask mom or dad anymore. You want to prove your independence. For those who are starting their families, more budgeting skills are needed. These hardships in real world are sometimes reasons enough for you to think of retreating back to your former secured happy worlds of make-believes. So now, even for few hours, you want to go back there: when you were young and not worrying about money or relationships. Like being in Terabithia and you can do whatever you want because you are the King like Aaron or the Queen like Leslie. Sometimes, you even want to cryoh, I hated the book for making me cry especially when Leslie diedbecause of the pain of realization. You are no longer a child. You are now too old for make-believes. But hey, that's life. You will grow old too. We will all die.Am I not right?