I can't believe I read this. After I read Twilight and was bitterly disappointed with the last two books in that series, I swore I would never pick up any more YA fiction. Not to mention I feel slightly embarrassed reading YA fiction anyway. Well you know what they say about never say never...Several co-workers and I exchange books and one passed this one along, saying that she thought I'd like it. I read the back cover description and said "nah." I am not into futuristic, dystopic, sci-fi, Star-Trek, Lord of the Rings, blah blah. But I did enjoy Harry Potter because it wasn't a completely unrecognizable world but instead a parallel universe. It's not like Harry had to make a choice to never go back to the land of the muggles, unlike Bella, who turned into a vampire and was now a completely different creature. (and add vampire lit to my list - it's overdone.)So after a few months of pushing this around, I picked up the first one and oh boy I finished it in two days. Had to take a brief rest so I wouldn't get saturated but I needed that instant gratification and read the next two books cover-to-cover in just a few days. Well I wish I had paced myself a little better.I honestly cannot give this series 4 or 5 stars because, let's face it, 5 stars belongs to Crime and Punishment, On the Road, Sophie's Choice, etc.I gave this 3 stars because I did enjoy the story, the writing was skillful and the author was very mindful in developing her characters and their environment. I totally felt myself plunked down into District 12 and felt Mrs. Everdeen's pain, Haymitch's wasted life, the superiority of the Capitol, Katniss's bitterness at having lost her dad and having to be the sole support for her family. That whole scene where Peeta threw her a loaf of bread while she was foraging in the trash, in the rain, oh my god, the pathos...The reaping day description took me back to Shirley Jackson's "The Lottery" and since that was a short story and this was a series, I knew that the sacrificial lamb was going to be around for at least one entire book. I did kind of wonder why Katniss wasn't thinking about Gale all the time when she was in the arena, but I suppose when you're fighting to stay alive your boyfriend back home kind of takes a backseat.I did fall in love with Peeta - nothing more needs be said on that. Gale - meh. Although he is supposedly the one Katniss loves, I don't get that vibe at all, not in any of the books. I got more of a sense of romantic conflict in the Twilight series, so Team Peeta/Team Gale? nah. It's Peeta all the way, baby. Not to mention that Gale willingly went to, oh wait. don't want to put any spoilers here.So it was enjoyable and I do like the young feller who will portray Peeta in the Hunger Games movie. I saw him in a few movies where he was like 9 years old, and these days he is looking fine.