While a large portion of bibliophiles read and adoredThe World According To Garpduring their adolescence, I was too busy reading of apocalypses brought on by green meteorites, three-pronged killer plants and the bomb. Reading it now I understand the attraction that it may have had to a teenager, but I question what a teenager would have taken away from it. Because I know that I am questioning what I have taken away from this book at my age, and I even question the motives and the meaning of this book, if there is any.While the novel starts off innocently with a coherent voice and some sense of reality, the progression of the novel, and indeed Garp's life, is a progression into soap opera and a ridiculousness that undermined the whole novel for me. I might be too dim to realise that this was the author's intention, or even too dim to see a bigger message here, but it seems that this novel goes so far into not taking itself seriously that I can only surmise that this was just a great big wank for Irving.I can only try to discern any message that the author had on sex, lust and individuality by glossing over the complete mess that he smears over any message by presenting farcical situations in an otherwise traditional setting and by using Garp's writing to mock the novel that it contains. Just when you start to feel for a character, or start to see a message coming through you are presented with an over-the-top death, killer fanatics, Tootsie style drag or some other contrived scenario that makes you go "Ugh". Maybe this was the intention of the author, I'm too dim to tell.While I am critical of the motives of the author and story there is still a lot to enjoy here. The outer characters I have a lot more sympathy for and they were a joy to read about. Even Jenny in her way was a pleasure. There is some damn fine writing going on here. Writing that will stick to your sides and and keep you reading despite being about a character that is a selfish, bumbling and likeable asshole.So I can see why teenagers would gravitate to this story. It was Kurt Cobain before Kurt Cobain. It's full of extremism, sex, lust and lost people. Everyone is a figurehead for something. I just wish that the smear of undermining bullshit wasn't there.