Masterful storytelling. Definitely a page-turner. My first time to read a book by John Irving (born in 1942) and I am quite impressed. Well, had I read this five years ago, I would have rated this with 5 stars. It is well-written, full of interesting themes (foremost is feminism), memorable characters and events. Funny and tragic at the same time. Many images will stay in your mind after finally closing the book. However, it felt too much that in the end, it seemed: whoa, can this happen in real life? Irving made almost all pages worth your while as if he wanted to please you so you won't find anything wrong with it. It was as if he really wanted to succeed as a novelist. He did actually. This book, published in 1978, became an international bestseller and won the 1979 National Book Award. This book came up after his three earlier novels only got lukewarm reviews from the literary critics (Source: Wikipedia).The main characters isT.S. Garpthe son of a strong-willed nurseJennywho does not want a husband but only a baby. There is this dying WWII soldier,Technical Sergeant Garpwho gets an automatic erection but who cannot masturbate because of his damaged hands so to relieve him, nurse Jenny does her thing until one night when the soldier is about to die, she gets on top of him and that's how Garp comes to this (their) world. The rest of the story is about Garp as a son, husband, family man, sex addict, wrestler and a struggling writer. There are so many memorable dialogues and scenes that I could not pick up a favorite but the ones that will stay forever in my mind are the sex scenes (well, common now, Irving wanted us to remember them that's why he described them very vividly and unique, right?) while the dialogues or thoughts that I will always remember are the ones pertaining to Irving's seemingly obsessions about dying. There is a scene (or scenes actually) where Garp is imagining how his relatives will die."When it comes to life, we are all terminal cases."He creates those scenes in his mind that made me cringed. This sometimes comes into my mind too but I am a firm believer of Covey'sBegin with the end in mindor the power of mind and so I would not want to attract those images and they might come true. So, whenever it comes to me, I always think of other things.In the end, if I would continue the title as a sentence? Here it goes: "The world according to Garp..." is tough and full of tragedy and laughter is one way of enduring it.This is one of the memorable books I've ever read. Well done, Mr. Irving. Can't want to read your other books like "A Prayer for Owen Meany" (my next and it has to be this year) and "The Cider House Rules" (maybe next year as I saw the film already).I hope the Good Lord will bless you with more years to write, sir.Garp!