(Spoilers ahead.)THE DOUBLE DATEDramatis Personae:Henry, protagonist of A Farewell to Arms, ex-soldier.Catherine, wife of Henry, an ex-nurse for wounded soldiers.Michael,book "reviewer,"handsome and devilish rogue.Joy,Michael's wife. She'll cut a bitch.The Waiter, self-explanatory.Distressed Customer #1, Only has one line.Dying Man, just proposed to his girlfriend.Dying Man's Fiance, happy, but frightened her dude will croak before they tie the knot.Harold Bloom,asshole.SCENE 1: The DateCatherine: Oh, Henry, I do so love you, and I hope you don't tire of me. I'm going to do my best to be a good wife for you. I am doing well, aren't I?Henry: You couldn't be doing better, my love. I can't imagine what I'd do without you.Joy: Pardon me while I puke under the table.Michael: Try not to get any on my shoes.Waiter: Could I interest you in any appetizers?Michael: Sure. What kind of animals are in your sausage?Waiter: Ummm . . . I'm not sure, but I can check.Joy: No, don't worry about it; we'll have the queso dip.Catherine: Order for me, Henry, I want whatever we choose to please you.Henry: Okay. We'll have two more bourbons and the chicken fingers.Joy: *looking at Catherine, makes whipping noise, and does the accompanying arm gesture.*Catherine: What does that mean? That thing you just did?Joy: Thing I just did? Whatever do you mean?Catherine: You went. . . *makes whipping noise, does the accompanying arm gesture*Joy: I most certainly did not, and I don't know what something like that would mean.Catherine: Well, I'm confident I saw you do it.Joy: I had a thing on my arm. I was shaking it off. Maybe I sneezed at the same time, I can't remember.Henry: It was good of you to invite us on this double date. I've just returned from the war, and I'm glad to be out with friends again.Michael: Don't mention it, Henry, it's my pleasure. I always like having dinner with fictional characters. How is the war going?Henry: Not so well. It's over, actually, and Italy lost. The two of us are living in Switzerland now, getting ready for the baby.Michael: How long will it be?Joy: That's what she said.Michael: *punches Joy in the arm*Joy: *Slaps the side of Michael's head*Henry: Another two weeks. We can't wait.Catherine: We're simply dying for the baby to be born.Joy: *Whispering* Well, that was tasteless.Catherine: What did you say?Joy: Oh, nothing.Catherine: *glaring at Joy* I get the feeling you truly don't like me, Joy. What on earth did I do to you?Joy: You're just so fucking submissive, Catherine! How do you ever expect to be happy if Henry never gets to know the real you?Catherine: What do you mean, the real me? He knows I was a nurse during the war, and that I love him . . . what else is there to know?Michael: But don't you have any hobbies? I mean, do you like French movies? Do you like gardening?Henry: Wait a minute. Why would you require a greater depth of character from my wife than you get from me? I'm not an especially complex person, either.Michael: Well, not especially, but we know you have a fetish for sports, and you dig fishing and stuff. So, that lends a greater realism to your personality than Catherine has.Catherine: *blushing* This is hardly polite conversation.Joy: Sorry, Catherine, but you asked.*The waiter delivers appetizers. They begin eating.*Michael: This is good queso. Good choice, babe.Joy: As usual.Michael: So, you two read any good books lately?Henry: *ignores Michael's question* I object to the way you're talking about my wife. She might not be the most complex person, but she's still admirable: like my own sacrifice--fighting in the war--Catherine is going to make a great sacrifice when. . . well, you know.Catherine: What?Henry: Nothing, dear.Joy: AAAH, so YOU make a sacrifice by voluntarily going off to war. She makes a sacrifice by getting knocked up and dying during childbirth. You defend the country and come home safely, while she dies trying to poop out a baby.Catherine: What? I die during childbirth?Henry: I thought we weren't going to talk about that.Michael: Well, it IS kinda the elephant at the dinner table.Henry: We both show equal courage in the face of hopeless adversity, and neither one of us have a false sense of optimism!Harold Bloom, from the next table over: I'm sorry, but NOBODY would say that. That's just bad dialogue.Michael: Fuck off, Harold. Go find some Dickens to stroke off to.Harold: Well, I never. . .Joy: Yeah. Go pick your wick. And, in response to your unrealistic dialogue, Henry, here's what I think: she might be brave, but she only does three things, really: take care of wounded men, love a man, and have a baby. You and half the lit crits in the world can try to convince yourself that she's a 'feminist' character in some context, but it's like when Intelligent Design people try to re-explain scientific findings so they'll agree with a predetermined worldview.Michael: THAT'S realistic dialogue.Henry: Oh, god, do we have to talk about politics?Catherine: Why not? We've already talked about how I'm going to f______ die!Michael: It's the year 2010 now. You don't need to censor your swearing anymore.Henry: Good. You two are cocksuckers.Michael: Do you wanna walk out of here or get carried out, soldier boy?Henry: Try me. Just try me.Distressed customer #1, from across the restuarant : Help! Help! Is there a cynic in the house?*All four characters raise their hands.*Michael: I've been waiting my whole life for that to happen.*Henry rushes toward the distressed patrons, but Joy trips him and pushes him down. The other three rush over to find a customer hyperventilating on the floor.*Dying Customer's Fiance: He just proposed to me, and when I said yes, he started hyperventillating! I think he's on the verge of dying from sheer happiness!Michael: What is this world coming to?Catherine: Don't be so happy. You'll inevitably give away your youth, vigor and passion as a sacrifice for the generation coming after you. And YOU *pointing at the fiance* just be careful about using birth control.Joy: *crouches over the dying man* And, anyway, women are genetically designed to seek out other potential mates once they've found a man to take care of their children, so she'll probably cheat on you with every bad boy she meets.Michael: Not to mention, even if things somehow work out, what do you have left? Fifty, sixty years? And that's counting all those shitty years, where one of you will be living in a nursing home and dragging around a colostomy bag, wondering why the hell your grandkids aren't visiting. And that's the LUCKY one of you who doesn't die first. Honestly, buddy, you're probably gonna die in your mid-seventies, then SHE'LL head off to the nursing home, and maybe meet some hot old guy who she had an affair with twenty years ago, get remarried, and that old fucker will inherit all your money.Dying Man: *stops hyperventillating, starts crying*Dying Man's Fiance: Thank you so much! You saved him!Dying Man: I'm not sure this marriage is a good idea.SCENE 2: AwakeningMichael: *Wakes up with a start* Wow. That was a weird dream. Even weirder than the one where I was obsessed with buying Hot Wheels cars.Joy: *Wakes up with a groan* Shut up or leave the bedroom.Michael: *Rolling over.* If you were nice all the time, I don't think I could handle it.Joy: Don't worry; I won't be.Michael: Goodnight.Joy: 'Night.*Michael and Joy fall back asleep.*