About six months ago I readThe Secret Gardenfor possibly the first time, and while I was happy to have finally read it, realized that I probably would have appreciated it more if I had read it as a younger reader.I felt similarly aboutA Little Princess.In this story we have young Sara Crewe, a precocious and intelligent little girl whose father indulges her every whim and desire, sent to a seminary for young ladies where she uses her imagination to make friends and some enemies. When her father dies (not a spoiler, it's on the back cover, calm down), Sara is left in the hands of Miss Minchin, the nasty headmistress who already doesn't like Sara because... well, who knowswhyexactly. In these sorts of books, one never needs a real motive.Because Sara's father is gone, and the money is gone, Miss Minchin takes to hating on little Sara even harder, tossing her in the attic in a room next to the scullery-maid's and making Sara into a little slave of sorts. And times are sad.But never fear! Sara continues using her imagination and playing pretend and making friends with the rats in the walls. Due to her persistence and chronic do-gooding, things wind up turning out pretty well for Sara, in spite of everything, not that I was particularly worried. Sara is the sort of character for which things just naturally work out.So, likeThe Secret Gardenthis is a fine little book with a nice moral for younger readers. As an adult reader, and one with a crusted up little black heart, I have bigger issues with these stories, social issues like the way anyone Not White is stereotyped and how some people are worthy and some are not, but everyone shouldaspireto improve their position in life which is not the same as aspiring to improve oneself.The parts I did appreciate about the story are the same things most of us here appreciate: Sara is a bibliophile and sort of socially awkward in her unconventional ways. She stands her ground in the face of adversity and pisses people off because she doesn't raise her voice when they're screaming at her. I mean, yeah. I get it.I also appreciated the inclusion of the rats. I fell a little in love with Melchisedec and am campaigning for my boyfriend to change one of his rats' names to that, a hard battle considering his rats are all females. I think rats tend to not have good representation in literature, so I was pleased to see Sara befriending them. I didn't do the same when I had mice in my apartment once upon a time, that was downright traumatic and awful and I don't think I slept well for almost a full year. But rats are a lot of fun - the pet kind. (Or the ones who sport capes and have adventures.) Not the jumbo-sized sewer rats you see digging in the trash in Baltimore.