The Velveteen Rabbitor How Toys Become Realby Margery Williams Bianco (1881-1944) was originally published in 1922 when she was 41 years old.Tonight is my first time to read this book. Shame on me. It only took 15 mins to read it and at first I was totally not impressed. I thought I already saw the theme of previously-cherished toys being discarded either in favor of a newer or more hi-tech toy or when the child becomes an adult used in Disney/Pixar's movieToy Story.I also thought I already read about the realization of growing old or passing of time used poignantly in E. B. White'sCharlotte's Web. However, check the years. Toy Story 1 was shown in 1995 andCharlotte's Webwas first published in 1952. Hence, unless there were other children's books with the same themes earlier than 1922,The Velveteen Rabbitwastheoriginal.The story is very simple yet it strikes a chord in one's heart. It is about a stuff rabbit toy given to a boy on Christmas Day. Along with other hi-tech and shiny gifts, the little rabbit toy is not a big hit so he is kept in the boy's cabinet. One of them is an old wooden horse who tells the little rabbit that the latter can become real only when he is loved. One night, the boy's nanny cannot find her ward's bed companion toy so she gets the little rabbit. They seem to click so from then on, the boy sleeps with the little rabbit and brings him anywhere he goes. Being a stuff toy, the little rabbit has wear and tear: his color is fading, his hay-filled body is becoming out of shape, he is starting to lose his whiskers, etc. Despite those, the boy still loves him and this makes the little rabbit very happy. However, the boy gets sick withscarlet feverand the doctor orders the boy's parents to burn all his toys.If you check Wikipedia, the vaccine for scarlet fever was only discovered in 1924 (two years after the first publication ofVelveteen. Then in 1940, the vaccine was eclipsed by the discovery of penicillin. So, the burning of the toys in 1922 was a sensible order from the doctor.I am not saying though that this book is better than J. M. Barrie'sPeter Pan(1902) or Antoine de Saint-Exupery'sLe Petite Prince(1945) or even A. A. Milne'sWinnie The Pooh(1926). These three novels are far more comprehensive, multi-layered, imaginative and their characters are more memorable. However, the simplicity ofThe Velveteen Rabbitis its most endearing asset. The vulnerable and trusting little rabbit is much more endearing than the cockiness of Peter, the wisdom of the Little Prince and the cluelessness of Winnie.Don't read the part below if you are not my brother:To my brother who always likes to check if a novel has an allusion to sex, check this book out. The little rabbit is told that being worn out is the consequence of being loved. It does not matter if the little rabbit, because the boy loves him, later becomes out of shape, with faded color, loses its luster, with missing whiskers, etc because he is loved by the boy. Maybe Williams anticipated readers like my brother so she made both characters, the boy and the rabbit, as male ha ha.