The lone train chugs down the tract westward, in the cold, dark, winter's night, over a country that no longer exists, from Istanbul,Turkey, to Calais, France, then across the English Channel by boat, for home, a long, tedious, three day trip. For Hercule Poirot, just having successfully wrapped up a case, in Syria, yet he's summoned again to another. No vacation, for the tired man, London calls and he goes...The little Belgian detective (please stop calling him French), is much in demand. Becoming rich and famous, solving difficult mysteries, all over the European continent, and beyond is hard work. The Great Depression, doesn't effect him....Quite strange but the train's coaches are full at this time of year too, poor concerned Poirot, can't get a first class compartment, luckily Monsieur Bouc, a director of the train company, and friend of Hercule's, is on board, helps the detective. Second class accommodations, he receives ( apparently not that close of a friend to M. Bouc). Poirot shares a compartment with a young, likable, American Hector MacQueen, working for an evil looking fellow American, a millionaire by the name of Samuel Ratchett. The man asks Mr.Poirot, to work for him he needs a very good bodyguard desperately. Someone has threatened his life, but the detective refuses, doesn't like his face, which greatly angers the aloof millionaire, preparing to compensate Hercule, very well indeed. Past midnight the train is stopped, by a snowdrift in the middle of nowhere, what was then, Yugoslavia. It might be days, before they can be rescued worst still , a murder has been committed during the stormy night. A cry was heard, maybe a groan by Poirot...in his bunk. Ratchett, no big surprise , was butchered with numerous stabs to his body, Dr. Constantine, examines the corpse, seems puzzled by the bloody wounds...they don't make any sense. An all encompassing shadow falls on the train...No weapon is found... of course M.Bouc, hires Hercule to find the killer or killers. The bored Belgian, is revitalized, gladly accepts the assignment and challenge, a dozen passengers, French, Russian, English, Swedes and Americans, a dozen suspects...From royalty , the middle class, to servants. Later , the stained knife, in a bag is located, also a handkerchief, button, burnt letter and other items are inside the dead man's compartment. Too many clues, to be credible, all starts to clear when the victim's real identity , is found out. He was a gangster, Cassetti involved in a notorious kidnapping, back in America, obviously patterned after the Lindbergh case of the early 1930's. The problem for Hercule is, everyone of the passengers has a good alibi, Mr. or Monsieur Poirot, has a lot of time to think, nothing adds up... too many coincidences...Who knows when or if the people of the Orient Express can be saved....But from whom ? For fans of mystery stories one of the best, Agatha Christie at her prime...