Book ReviewI may be a little unpopular with my 3 of 5 stars rating forThe Crucible, a play byArthur Miller, but in my world, a 3 means it's your generally good book/play/movie with some great things, some bad things, and an overall "yeah, you should probably read it."The topic: Salem Witch Trials, one of my absolute favorite time periods in American history to research. Miller is brilliant, I acknowledge it. He bring suspense, timing and charisma in everything he does. But when this is about an episode from our history over 250 years before the play was written, I expected something a bit different / stronger. Too many scenes were too dry for me.So many schools put this play on as a high school production. Even in colleges sometimes. I was tempted to look for it on Broadway... I mean, I do live in NYC. Why wouldn't I go try it out? Really... I blame myself here.Characters are great. You do feel strong emotions towards them. I think what I wanted more of... was the mysterious air surrounding those deemed a witch. There are some scenes where it's almost there for me, but ultimately... I wanted more. I should probably give it another chance... it's been almost 25 years.About MeFor those new to me or my reviews... here's the scoop: I read A LOT. I write A LOT. And now I blog A LOT. First the book review goes on Goodreads, and then I send it on over to my WordPress blog athttps://thisismytruthnow.com, where you'll also find TV &amp; Film reviews, the revealing and introspective 365 Daily Challenge and lots of blogging about places I've visited all over the world. And you can find all my social media profiles to get the details on the who/what/when/where and my pictures. Leave a comment and let me know what you think. Vote in the poll and ratings. Thanks for stopping by.Note: All written content is my original creation and copyrighted to me, but the graphics and images were linked from other sites and belong to them. Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544][polldaddy poll=9719251]