Quick reviewTerrific fantasy setting and storyline spoilt by extremely unsubtle allegory and (as the story progresses) excessive Christian preachiness. Warning: Racial stereotypes abound and may offend.Recommended for adults who thrive in a Christian religious environment or those who can overlook these aspects totally and enjoy the story. Not for gullible children, unless accompanied by a discerning adult.Detailed reviewI won't insult the intelligence of respected GoodReaders by giving a synopsis of the Narnia stories - I don't think there will be many here who do not know this story, even if you have not actually read the books. The stories of the four Pevensie children who discover the magical land of Narnia through the back of a wardrobe is the stuff of legend in literary circles - a land which they rule over as kings and queens after freeing it from the enchantment of the White Witch, under the benign yet firm supervision of Aslan the lion.As fantasies for children go, this is a terrific universe filled with possibilities. There are talking animals, magical creatures from Greek mythology and English fairy-lore, and suitably satisfying and mysterious landscape worthy of exploration again and again. So one feels that if only the author in C. S. Lewis had let himself go he could have produced something similar to theThe Lord of the Rings.Unfortunately, he does not do that. The author sublimates himself to the Christian, so that the story becomes allegory - and mostly allegory. The spirit of gung-ho adventure is coated over with sickly-sweet preachiness which becomes so cloying towards the end that one almost feels like throwing up.***This book contains the novels in the chronological order as regards the story:1. The Magician's Nephew2. The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe3. The Horse and His Boy4. Prince Caspian5. The Voyage of the Dawn Treader6. The Silver Chair7. The Last BattleHowever, the actual order in which the books were published is:1. The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe2. Prince Caspian3. The Voyage of the Dawn Treader4. The Silver Chair5. The Magician's Nephew6. The Horse and His Boy7. The Last BattleIt seems that there is a hot dispute going on about the order in which the books should be read. After reading them in the chronological sequence, I would advise reading them in the sequence of publication. IMO, the last two -The Horse and His Boy, andThe Last Battle- are better left unread, especially the last one. More about that later.Aslan the Lion is Christ - this becomes evident inThe Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobeitself(view spoiler)[(he sacrifices himself to save Edmund Pevensie, and is immediately resurrected)(hide spoiler)]. The White Witch (and later, the Queen of the Underworld) are embodiments of Evil with a capital E.(I was a bit surprised that there was no sign of the gentleman with the horns and the forked tail. Evil is entirely feminine - that too, with a perverse sort of sexual attractiveness. It seems Lewis was genuinely frightened of woman's sexuality: Susan becomes a "non-friend of Narnia" the moment she becomes a nubile young woman. Lewis's protagonists, like that of Lewis Carroll, are prepubescent girls.)The Christian world view is evident from the word go - for example, the animals and birds can all be killed and eaten, provided that they are not "talking animals"! (They have been specially blessed as such by Aslan, we are told, in the story of the creation of Narnia inThe Magician's Nephew.) This evidently comes from the Bible where Man is given dominion over every living thing on earth. In case we don't get it, Aslan continuously addresses the boys as "Sons of Adam" and the girls as "Daughters of Eve" and says that only they can rule over Narnia. As the story progresses, it becomes more prevalent - and now racism and intolerance of the heathens also come into play.The Calormenes - dark-skinned foreigners who worship a savage god Tash, wear turbans and carry scimitar-like swords - are an Englishman's fantasy of the bloodthirsty and lecherous Turk. In their country, young girls are routinely married off to old codgers, and they wage war on the free countries like Narnia to rape and pillage. Their God Tash, however, is a pagan deity who is loosely associated with the gentleman I mentioned earlier - the guy with horns.The unlikeable brat Eustace Scrubb is the son of liberal parents who are pacifists and vegetarians. He studies in a school which does not have corporal punishment and which does not teach the Bible - and is therefore full of bullies who are encouraged by the Principal! However, Eustace reforms after a visit to Narnia, and returns back to the school and hammers the living daylights out of the bullies. The Principal is removed from the school and ultimately becomes a Member of Parliament, where she lives happily ever after (note the point: M. P. 's are failed schoolteachers who fail to put the fear of God into children).It is in the last book that Lewis outdoes himself. There is an ape who presents a donkey as Aslan. The ape is part of a conspiracy with the Caloremenes who present their God Tash and Aslan as the same, butdon't believe in either.(view spoiler)[In an Armageddon of sorts, Narnia is destroyed, Tash eats up his worshippers, and the dwarves who believe in neither are confined in a dark stable of their own creation (the fate of atheists?)(hide spoiler)]. Also, the ending is patently silly(view spoiler)[(all the friends of Narnia being killed in a train accident so that they can inhabit Aslan's timeless paradise)(hide spoiler)]and for me, it was disgusting.Then why the three stars?Well, if you can ignore the allegory and the preachiness, there are some pretty interesting adventures here. The first three books are rather well-written (although a bit simplistic) andThe Voyage of the Dawn Treaderis your classic sea adventure.The Magician's Nephewis extremely funny in parts. One advise to prospective readers though - please give the last book a miss.