This book is not so much about a character as it is about a culture - the drug culture of the 60s and early 70s. The manic way uppers and downers and LSD and hard liquor mix together with a little too much West Coast soul-searching.There are a couple of things I really liked about this book. For one, the atmosphere of open Western desert is to me one of the most alluring places you can find in America. It's that original sense of Manifest Destiny. It's barren and untamed and there's a part of every generation's spirit that can find some inspiration from this. In the late 60s, of course, it was the vagabonds and the Kerouac types that were drawn in. I think Thompson did a pretty fantastic job of capturing the feeling of this part of the country - especially at this point in time. In the book, the main character says he is chasing the "American Dream." And isn't that what the West is all about?Maybe Thompson was pointing out the lie of the American Dream. Here in the midst of the Los Angeles/Vegas slums, infested with drug-bingers, the "American Dream" is not only out of reach, but mocking them? Or maybe Thompson was saying even these guys, the ones reeling off LSD, are still, in their own way, searching for that American ideal. Maybe it was the ideal that pushed them to this? I'm not sure.But either way, Thompson captures the tone of Vegas and Western US in a unique way.I also enjoyed his descriptions of Las Vegas - even though I've never been to Vegas I could still feel its atmosphere and bizarre culture. The way freaks become the norm in a place like that, the way it must breed a particular type of drug culture. There must be a certain emptiness in Vegas - basically comprised of gamblers, drinkers and cokeheads filling up some void in their life by going to a place that profits from it. It was really interesting, I liked it.Now, why this book was 3 stars and not 4 was just that I didn't feel very connected to the characters, themselves. There was a lot of description of the physical ridiculousness of this guy's drug-frenzies. Basically the book is in a heightened state of paranoia about being caught by the cops. I wish there had been more connection to the characters emotionally. But maybe that, too, is a statement. There can't be much more than surface-level in cities like Vegas or L.A. in the crowds this guy was running in. Not because they were superficial - but because at that point in a drug-dependent life, there's the same emptiness that is reflected in the city of Vegas itself. Emotional emptiness, maybe. I'm not sure.I did like this book. I feel like this novel is a better anthropology of 60s drug culture than anything a textbook/PBS Documentary could give me. /Recommended.