I somehow missed readingRootswhen it was new and fresh. I also never watched the iconic miniseries based on the book. I do remember that both book and miniseries created quite a buzz in the Seventies. I've recently been reading a bit of African-American fiction and a smaller bit of non-fiction about slavery and race issues. It seemed to me that I would eventually need to readRootssimply because of its impact. When I saw it on sale at Audible for $4.95, I snatched it up. As a bonus, the narrator is Avery Brooks from Star Trek: Deep Space Nine. He's got such a wonderful voice that reminds me a lot of James Earl Jones in cadence and timbre.The novel starts out great. The scenes involving Kunta Kinte's growing up in Gambia are rich and well rounded. There was a lot of suspense because you just know that he's going to get sold into slavery, but you don't know how or when it's going to happen. Will the slavers capture the whole tribe, or will Kunta simply disappear like so many others? When the inevitable happens, it's frightening and gut-wrenching. The scenes of his captivity and transport seem quite realistic, albeit disgusting.The novel quickly goes downhill once Kunta Kinte reaches America. My biggest complaint may be the over-use of the N-word. Yes, I know that the N-word is the name used by and for the Negroes of the time. However, other terms were also used. Haley just went strictly with the N-word though. However, in Haley's defense, while that word was offensive in 1974, it is much more offensive today. I also thought that either Haley did a bad job with dialect or Brooks over-acted it. After listening for an hour or two, it had to stop myself from saying things like, "I's a goan ta..." or "Yes sah, massah sah". I also thought that the slaves in the book were very unrealistic. They are aware of almost every historical event. I doubt the whites of the time were as well-informed as these slaves were.I couldn't help but wonder why these particular slaves wanted to be free. Haley paints an idyllic picture of slave life. Heck, they have it better off than the poor whites of the time. Oh, they hear about bad overseers and families being broken up, but this family manages to stay together and they have really nice massahs. Even Massah Lee, who raped Kizzie when he bought her, turns out to be a good massah. So much of this novel reads like the positive images white slave owners tried to perpetuate about slavery rather than a condemnation of the practice.Frankly, I think there are books that do a far better job of dealing with the slavery issue thanRootsdoes. I would recommendBelovedby Toni Morrison orNarrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass: An American Slave, Written by Himselffor books that really convey the evils of slavery in a visceral manner.Now, I think I need to go readUncle Tom's Cabin.