First of all, I am not one of those people who rate a book on anticipation, nor do I appreciate it when people do. This review is based on the 12 chapters linked on Stephenie Meyer's website. Yes there are grammatical errors but not anything to be embarrassed about the rough format of the text. I'd be more embarrassed about the use of the word chagrin more times than I cared to count (ok I still counted) which made me cringe with chagrin. Secondly, yes I am a hypocrite. I am aware that my very last Stephenie Meyer review stated I was done with her books. But... this is the same story right? I'm not going to get sucked into any new fiction from her but after several weeks of avoiding this I finally broke down and read the chapters.Reading this did slightly lessen my disdain for Breaking Dawn in that I can see how from Edward's perspective Bella was meant to be a vampire. I still don't like Breaking Dawn but going back to Twilight beforeNew Moonand Eclipse took the story in a different direction it makes just a hair more sense. And most importantly I can see why Edward fell in love with Bella. This finally explains what makes Bella special. Of course this is just the first few chapters before Bella turns to mush definable only by her relationship with Edward when I liked Bella too. But even then I didn't get why Edward who has lived over 100 years would like her. Now I do.I also didn't see Edward as such a creep. We understand why he says things like "I have a problem with my temper" and it's not that he has a problem with his temper. But he still is obsessively protective of Bella and it didn't lessen my distaste of that. The whole Bella being a magnet for trouble is hammered into the ground a little too much. And maybe it's because I don't buy into her need to be overly protected but I did find it annoying. And the cheesy overly possessive dialogue is worse coming from a guy's perspective. Probably because I've already read these discussions before, but many of the conversations I found boring and childish.But overall, it was nice to see what Edward was thinking in the early stages of their relationship before they were open with each other. I didn't realize how much Meyer had left to question in Twilight. I pulled out my copy of Twilight to see what Bella was thinking when Edward was confused by her silence and it was nice to go through them together. (And just to clarify: it's not my copy of Twilight. It's my niece's. I'm a definite closet, on-the-fence fan.) I would have liked to see more scenes of Edward away from Bella instead of just rereading Twilight from another perspective, but maybe she intended to fill those in later.My biggest disappointment with this is that it's incomplete. Not so much that it is unfinished but where she finished it. Meyer said she wrote her favorite scenes first and where this whole idea came from a dream of a girl and vampire in the meadow which became the first written chapter in Twilight, I was sure the meadow scene would be one of the first scenes she wrote. But no. These leaked pages start at the beginning of the book and follow right up until two days before the meadow scene. The Port Angeles chapter was interesting, but really all I want to know is Edward's thoughts as he learns to deal with touching her and his physical reactions to their first kiss. If she had written just a few chapters more, I would have been completely satisfied with Bella's account of James and never cared to read a completed book of Midnight Sun. And she was so close...Despite the incompleteness of the book, I am glad I went over these chapters. The bad taste ofBreaking Dawnis more of a distant memory and now I have a more complete understanding of Twilight.