This book reminded me why I usually stick to Christian literature. What a depressing and tragic tale.Chris McCandless aka Alex Supertramp, gave away his savings, left his family and friends and headed off into the wilderness. He lived nomadically for a couple of years encountering various people along the way. His ultimate goal was to head into the wilds of Alaska and live off the land. This he did, but a few mistakes ended up costing him everything. His emaciated body was found by hikers in an abandoned bus some time later.The author has done an amazing job of following McCandless's elusive trail and collating all of the accounts and memories into a biography. He jumps around a bit--I would have preferred a chronological account. Likewise, he repeats some detail in places. The inclusion of details of others who have similarly disappeared was a good call. It made the narrative a lot more interesting. Also, the account of the author's own expedition into the mountains and near death experiences.However, as a Christian, I cannot help but wonder what benefit there is from this account and what lessons can be learned from the life of Chris McCandless and others. This appears to be a tale without hope because the author and no doubt many readers are assuming that there is no life after death. They assume that those who die apart from God will simple cease to exist or will automatically go to heaven. The only hope for Chris McCandless is that as he had been born and raised in America, he would likely have heard the saving news of Jesus in his lifetime. Whether or not he turned to God in his hour of need we do not know, if he did, he makes no reference to it in his final writings. What can be more devastating than a life lived without hope and with no assurance of eternal life in heaven?This tale gets worse in that as a result of McCandless's pointless death, at least three people renounced their faith in God. They turned away from the only source of true hope believing that a God of love would not have allowed this terrible thing to happen to someone they cared about. But, how real is our faith if we only worship God in the good times? Convincing ourselves that God isn't there and walking away from Him doesn't change the reality that we will one day stand before Him to give an account of our lives. One can only hope that these people were speaking out of their understandable grief and will be reconciled to God in due course.These wanderings into the wilderness seeking spiritual experiences or a better understanding of self, seem to always end in a person either becoming more introverted and selfish or as in the case of McCandless dying a painful and senseless death at a young age. I can only imagine how those years were for his family. We are created to live in community and to serve and help each other, not to isolate ourselves and fixate on our problems.The author observes that McCandless was searching for something but that he didn't know what it was. We are all searching for a purpose and meaning which can only be found in a relationship with God, our Creator. Sadly, neither McCandless or the author seem to have realised that. I guess the author is still searching. His comments about the workings of the mind in the many characters he describes are interesting but don't explain the reasons people really head off on these diversions.Despite my observations, this was a good read. It is well researched and apart from the very strong language which was fairly frequent, it is well written with a lot of creative detail. Those who enjoy climbing/adventure books may want to read it and will probably better understand a lot of the technical terms employed by the author. There is no sexual content or violence. There are graphic descriptions of death.This book will go someway to convincing people of the hopelessness and meaninglessness of life without God. It screams from the pages. Tragically, it is now too late for Chris McCandless, one can only pray that others sense their precarious position and are convicted and rescued as a result of his story.