panglossian- adj. characterized by or given to extreme optimism, especially in the face of unrelieved hardship or adversity.If an English word came from a book's character, that must be something. If the book was written and first published in the 18th century and many people still read it up to now, that must be really something.I thought Voltaire'sCandidewas a difficult boring slow long read. Wrong. Exactly the opposite. It's an easy, very entertaining, fast-paced and short (only 100 pages) read. If you are still scared of reading classics (pre-1900), give this one a try. You will love this!It tells a story of a man namedCandidewho falls in love with a materialistic but very beautifulCunegonde. Her barron father of the lady does not approve of the affair so he kicks Candide out from house. So, Candide wanders around and meets all the misfortunes along the way. The novel is apicaresqueas the long travel, meeting a lot of people and experiencing all the fortunes and misfortunes along the way, ends up with Candide enjoying his life and tending the beautiful garden of his estate.This is the reason why I, after more than 3 years, went to our frontyard this morning and tended my overgrown garden. I pruned the trees and the shrubs, trimmed the plants, pulled out some weeds while my daughter helped in shooing away big red ants and removing the cobwebs. Reading has these all positive effects on me. It can even remind me of the things that I have been forgetting for a long time. This novel closes with this line:"That is well said," replied Candide, "but we must cultivate our garden.". When I finished reading it last night, I said, why not?Its complete title isCandide or Optimismbecause of Candide's tutor,Doctor Panglosswho is an extreme optimist that Candide learns to always look at the positive side of things. You may say that I liked this book because of that. Wrong. The positivity of Dr. Pangloss is one for the books as it verges on stupidity and it is so funny when Candide remembers him and says"I wonder what would Pangloss say if he was here?"Having an English word culled from his name is really appropriate. He is really one for the books.A life err routine-changing novel since I am gardening again after 3 long years of doing nothing at home but reading, reading and reading...Except of course when am I at Goodreads reading book reviews of my friends, clicking the Like button and when I am in front of my desktop killing zombies by throwing plants at them.I liked this book!