Quick question: how many Daleks does it take to conquer Neil Gaiman?Answer: I don't know - since I am a blasphemous wench and have never seen a Doctor Who episode. Nor do I actually know what a Dalek is and what it does.To add to my nefarious ways, I'm also not a Gaiman fan (though not for lack of trying!)Clearly, whilst I am a scifi fan - I'm not the RIGHT kind of scifi fan!It's rather like two Star Trek fans meeting on the street:"So which episode of Enterprise is your favourite?" The first Trekker asks the second."Oh, I only like Voyager and Deep Space Nine!" The second Trekker quickly replies."I challenge you to Mortal Kombat!" screams the first Trekker, whipping out a Bat'leth, spittle flying from his mouth as fury transforms his features into something alien and cruel.Then they slap each other around for a while before going home.One to write Spock and Kirk slash fiction and the other to masturbate to pictures of Jeri RyanI truly believe you have to be the right kind of scifi fan to enjoy Gaiman to his fullest and unfortunately, like two strangers forced to interact occasionally, we just don't quite mesh together.I really enjoyed Stardust. Say what you want about Gaiman (no really, I already do) but he is a master of whimsy with a great imagination. Stardust has all the likable aspects of Neverwhere whilst managing to have a main character who is not a whiny, little annoying bitch! I was actually quite fond of this novel!Still, not a four star read from me. Having the story so heavily reliant on a magical fairy market, surprisingly similar to the one in Neverwhere lost some points with me. Of course themes can reoccur across novels but there was just too many tried and true mainstays of the fantasy genre in this book to really make it original and four-star worthy.As I've also found with other Gaiman novels is that he invests a great amount of interesting detail and depth into side characters, almost effortlessly, yet his two protagonists generally seem to lack the same treatment.Sure, Tristran and Yvaine grow and change. Sure they're definitely heads and shoulders better than a lot of characters written these days. But there's something vague and incomplete about them, their relationship together and decisions. They're still more puppets than characters and a great deal of Yvaine's character growth occurs off page.Some kind of explanation about the little man, the flying caption etc would have been nice as well. This was never expounded upon in the story.Over all, I enjoyed it. Not a perfect read, not a bad read either, but an enjoyable read.However, like the question of who would win: Neil Gaiman or the Daleks - well, I'm just ambivalent about the whole thing, really.Clearly I'm the wrong kind of Scifi fan.[image error]Or maybe I'm the right kind of scifi fan... who's to say?