Jane Austen can be deemed one of the best classic authors of all time. Women have loved her for ages and rightly so. Her stories are filled with characters who are well rounded and believable. The only novels I didn't like were Emma and Mansfield Park. Pride and Prejudice and Persuasion I liked the most.It was interesting to read these "chick lit" novels from a man's point of view. As a guy, I'm not the mushy-gushy kind. I like my Les Miserables, Count of Monte Cristo, and War and Peace. When I told my family I was reading Jane Austen they looked at me like "Ermegerd you are?" Yes, yes, I did. They never thought I would read her books based on my interests. However, I've gotta say, these books are not just "chick lit" because there is something everyone can take away from these books.The main thing I took away from the Jane Austen novels was how people dressed. Women weren't dressed immodestly with boobs hanging out and men weren't wearing their pants below their ass. People dressed to impress. Between you and me, there's nothing more sexy than a modest woman. Women who wear dental floss on a daily basis immediately turn me off. All that comes to mind is "girl is putting out" and "walking std". When a woman walks with confidence and wears modest clothing immediately makes me think how she's secure with herself, intelligent, doesn't care what people say/think, and dignified.No one wears nice clothes anymore unless they have white collar job, and even then it seems some are casual dress. Kids today can wear pajamas to school. Where's our dignity today? Seriously!Now, brings me to my last point. Masculinity. Women have read these books since forever and I've always heard them goo-goo and ga-ga over Mr. Darcy and other men in these books. Why? It's because they are masculine men. These men are gentleman, good, kind, and respectful. Girls like that. However, today, the masculine man is being demonized.Today, the word rouses a negative connotation. Men are "oppressors" and women are "the oppressed." People get an image of perverted, sex-crazed, rapist Zeus when they think of masculinity. That is a very very small percentage of men. Society has demonized masculinity today, and made Feminism consume everything. I'm not against a girl voting or being paid equal to a man. They SHOULD! I'm just saying masculinity or anything "manly" is being demonized. Competitive sports in school are almost a fairytale, drugs are being given to (mostly) boys if they have a lot of energy, recess time is shrinking, and boys are being told they are an oppressive sex. Now, take these physical outlets away and you wonder why boys are being treated for ADD, ADHD, etc. Let boys be boys for God's sake.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kn1q6...You want your Mr. Darcy? Then actually practice what you preach. Treat everyone equally. The pendulum is swinging too far the other way. Keep it in the middle.