As seen onThe ReadventurerWe all know whyDivergentwas written. There is no doubt 99% of dystopias published during the last year or so have been trying to at least partially replicate the success ofthetrilogy. Public wants to read more dystopian stories, publishers want to sell them, authors want to write them. Everyone is happy.I have read a few new dystopias recently and liked or disliked them to various degrees. There are dystopias for any taste, dystopias that emphasize separate aspects ofthetrilogy. There are dystopias that bank on romance (MatchedorDelirium). There are dystopias that take the shock value route (Wither). And then there isDivergentthat caters to the crowd who wants more action in their dystopias. And action this novel delivers!In a few words,Divergentis a one long initiation trial. Beatrice Prior is a member of a society that has been maintaining its peaceful existence by separating its citizens into 5 distinct factions. These factions are formed on the basis of virtues they cultivate in their members - Candor values honesty the most, Abnegation - selflessness, Dauntless - bravery, Amity - peacefulness and Erudite - intelligence. At 16 all citizens take a test that is supposed to help them decide if they want to stay with the faction into which they were born or transfer to another faction forever. Beatrice's test results are inconclusive and puzzling. Ultimately she decides to abandon her own faction (Abnegation) and her family and enter another (Dauntless). But of course, the transfer is not easy. The initiation trials are grueling.Divergentis essentially a depiction of Beatrice's road to becoming a Dauntless, both physically and emotionally. Beatrice's unusual test results come to play too, and in a major way.This emphasis on multiple trials and exercises is the strongest and the weakest part of the story.Veronica Rothhas a special talent for writing great fighting scenes, pulse-raising and adrenaline-pumping scenes. Her imagination in terms of inventing different tests and challenges seems to be limitless. Something exciting happens to Beatrice every day of her trials. But that is also the weakness of the story. About 85% of the book is dedicated to action and exercises. The actual story starts only around page 415 of this 500-page book. Only then stakes are raised and real action begins. If you ask me, 400-pages is a lot of prep to finally get to the meat of the story.Don't get me wrong, I liked the book (3 stars means "i liked it" on Goodreads).Divergentis good entertainment. I liked it, I was engaged in the story, I was even excited quite often. But something was missing for me. The novel has good characters, but they are notquiteas interesting and compelling as they could have been; it has a lot of action, but the justification for the amount of violence involved is notquiteadequate; it has a cute romance, but it neverquitemakes your heart contract in that sweet, painful way (you know what I am talking about, don't you?); the concept of factions is a unique one but notquiteplausible; the explanation what a Divergent actually is is notquiteclimactic; finally, except for one plot twist (p 415), the story takes a rather predictable road.I likedDivergent. I liked it more thanMatched,DeliriumorWither. I liked it less thanBlood Red RoadorShip Breaker. It entertained me. It promotes all the good things - bravery and self-sufficiency, friendships, honesty, determination. It is all about girl empowerment. But as the same time it isn't particularly thought-provoking or chilling. It never truly touched my heart. It is a write-by-numbers dystopia.The verdict? I guess, you'll have to see for yourself?P.S. While I am on the subject of dystopias and have your attention, I want to recommend one of my most favorite dystopias that doesn't get nearly as much acknowledgment as it deserves. Please, check outNeal Shusterman'sUnwindYou will not regret it.