This review was posted atMy Secret RomanceAuthor Interview &amp; GiveawayCalm down ladies...before you go crazy on me and try to hunt me down to get this. I received this to review from the publisher so I'll be spending my night with Fifty!This is my old Fifty[image error]Here is my NEW FiftyUpdate since finishing the book.Oh Fifty! What happened to you? You are a changed, changed man and I don't I like it one bit! What happened to the domineering, authoritative, bossy, I-don't-take-no-for-an-answer man we all fell in love with?The book starts out with Ana and Christian on their honeymoon. They spend three weeks jetting across Europe and wrapped in each others arms every chance they get. It's so beautiful too, the love they have for each other. Christian is determined to give Ana the rainbows and butterflies she wants....and she gets it the entire book. Christian loves Ana probably more than life itself, yet she doubts it all the time. It was starting to grate on my nerves how much she doubted it. It's so romantic how much he loves her, truly. Only if all the woman in the world could be loved the way Fifty loves Ana. *sigh*There isn't much that has changed since the last book. We left off with someone after Christian and Ana, so there is a slight suspense to this read. The time will come when we find out who it is and the reasoning behind it. We still have Fifty keeping secrets from Ana, ALL THE TIME! What kind of marriage is that? I understand he wants to protect her and give her the world, but it gets to be a bit of a nuisance when he's withholding from her constantly. Ana is still struggling with her insecurity. I will say she does better with it in the end. She manages to defy order after order Christian gives her, but I liked that she did. It made it fun and exciting. Ana becomes somewhat stubborn. She wants what she wants and that's it. While the romance is still hot and steamy...I wanted more. It just wasn't enough for me. I can say there are a few hot and erotic parts of this book that will forever be seared into my brain.....I am definitely ok with that! The problem I have is that I find it hard to believe, Christian, who needs to be so in control, can be ok without playing now. It was all he knew! Some who read this will say there is playing, but I would have to disagree with that. Having Ana's hands tied up for literally a minute or two and a slap here and there can't possibly satisfy Christian's needs. But maybe that's why this book is called, Fifty ShadesFreed. Because he is freed from his past sexual needs? You'll have to read it to find out....Ana grows a spine and stands up to Christian. About time woman! It was definitely called for too, especially for what he does. I LOVED that part! Christian finally reveals to Ana what happened with Mrs. Robinson when they first met. In the end, surprises and secrets await and they will leave the fans wanting more. Oh, and Ana calls red....I was a little afraid to post a review for this book. There are some diehard Fifty fans out there. Please do not get discouraged with this review and rating. We all have different views. While I think it's only a three star read, you may think it's a five star read. Unfortunately, I felt that this book didn't reach it's peak like the others. Just when I got excited about something new and suspenseful happening, it was taken care of right then and there, over with. There were some parts felt very rushed to me. My only guess is that the author wasn't ready for all the hype that surrounded the first two books. So in an effort to give readers another story they were asking for, she put this book together in a haste, trying to make it better and over the top....and it just wasn't. Again, my opinion.I believe readers will be very happy with this ending. I know I am. I wanted to give the book more than three stars because of the ending, but I didn't. I can't rate a book based on one certain part. My rating is based on the whole book itself and that's why for the three stars. I think the last 25% of the book was the absolute best for me....and probably most readers. You will be ecstatic when you read it!I will always have a special place in my heart for The Fifty Shades Trilogy. I do love them very much. The second book will always be my favorite and I'm sure I will be rereading them for many years to come. Who knows, I may like the third book even more the second time I read it.