12/6/11-I can't believe this book was Favorite Book of 2011. I must not be part of the in-crowd! Oh well.Review below...I have questions. Once my questions are answered, maybe I'll move my overall ratings up from 2.5 stars to 3.5 stars. Here is the thing, If the world doesn't make sense to me, I'm not going to enjoy the book as much as I could enjoy it.So, here are my questions-Why, at the beginning, can Beatrice look in the mirror ONLY when her mom cuts her hair? What does her mom cutting her hair have to do with anything? She's not supposed to be vain so why would she care what is happening to her hair.When Tris (aka Beatrice) goes down the zipline from the 100 story building, she has to fall in the arms of her fellow Dauntless from 20 feet up. Who caught the first girl down the zipline?So, is the food synthetic, artificial (from the beginning of the book) or is it fresh (from later in the book)?Why is the marsh dried up, but they have a river, waterfall and of all things, a drinking fountain?Why do you need a backup generator to run the elevator up but you clearly have electricity to run other things?Isn't carbon dioxide a problem if you are really deep underground?How is it the scientists can make microscopic transmitters but there is not enough material to finish paving the roads? They talked about not being able to finish the roads, not that they didn't desire not to.Who runs the trains?Why is tattooing and piercings a sign of being brave? It said somewhere that the dauntless were not the artistic ones? I know tattoos are painful, yes. I have them and yes, I had piercings as well. But seriously, a sign of overall braveness? I don't think so.And finally....(view spoiler)[Tris (aka Beatrice) is divergent. She fits into more than one faction and can't be mind-controlled (we learn that divergent people can't be mind-controlled at the end of the book). She is told to keep this secret from the very beginning of the book when she first learns that she is divergent. Why would any one care if she is divergent (can fit into more than one faction), if going into the faction is her own choice (regardless of what faction you test in).It's the Erudite that eventually control the Dauntless through the mind control. But the people that told Tris to keep her divergent status a secret didn't know that the Erudite were trying to control the Dauntless. So, why would the people tell Tris to keep it a secret? Because it worked well in the story (later in the book) is the only reason I can come up with?(hide spoiler)]Update- July 11- I just found a note I wrote on this book (I sometimes write little notes to myself when doing an ARC review- don't laugh) and I totally forgot to put it in my review-What is the story behind Al? What was his motive? Did I just miss it completely?