If Savannah can wait for 21 years to give her virginity to someone she loves...Then why can't she wait a little bit longer for John to come back from the army???!!!She's madly in love with him.Is that what a nice and a sweet person supposed to do?!I could handle the slowness and the too-much-narration of this book. butTHAT THING, the one that I mentioned above... I couldn't take it. Really. She's just unbelievable. She doesn't even know what she really wants!Okay, so, this is my second Nicholas Sparks's novel afterA Walk to Remember, which I really loved. It tells a story of John Tyree who takes two weeks off from the army. Then he met a sweet girl named Savannah, who by chance did a volunteering in John's neighborhood. As you might already guess, they fall in love for each other. Really deep. They're quite certain they're gonna get married to each other and live happily ever after. Until 9/11 tragedy ruins everything.I started reading this book 2 months ago but it stopped after I read chapter one. I liked it when John talking about his awkward relationship with his calm/quiet father, but my enthusiasm faded when he talked much about Savannah. It kinda boring to me. Maybe I'm not really into romance. But I don't think it should be that flat, right? What happened to John is love at first sight with a sweet, nice and almost perfect girl with almost no real conflict between them. Even their fight over Savannah's diagnosis of John's father didn't really move me. Tedious as before.And then that moment came. When John's father got sick. My God, it was so depressing. Really. Even the single explanation of his father's condition broke me into tears. I really wish Sparks would talk more about Asperger syndrome that John's father suffered from rather than his agitating relationship with Savannah. And I think this is the main reason why I gave this book a three stars instead of two. It was all for John and his father relationship. &lt;333Alright, it's not always agitating when John narrated his relationship with Savannah. It was good near the end, though. The conflict was real. Even though Savannah became more hateful than before (at least to my own opinion), it was nice to finally read something interesting between them. What happened to John and Savannah in the end wasn't something that everyone would call a happily ever after, but it's still acceptable to me. Since, you know, i don't really adore this couple. :pSo that's all my review for this book. I really need to watch the movie again and decide which one is much better. And for you, who decides to read this book, enjoy yourself while reading it and be patient if you hate a slow pace story.