First things first, I'm going to tell you - hopefully briefly - about the new shelf I made and also, why I ever picked up this unfinished book again.This is my second attempt at writing this review... stupid crashingness!My Breakup Book ChallengeI realised, some time last year, that I have an unfinished book for every doomed relationship in my history, it's not many - mind you - but still. A weird thing to notice.... 13 years after the first was shelved, no? And whilst I didn't really care whether I ever finishedDear Johnthere are a couple books on that shelf I do really want to re-read/finish. I chose this to be the starting point for a couple reasons, a) I didn't care if I ever finished this book so if I ended up hating it - residually - it didn't really matter, and b) it was the most logical of my thusly shelved books. With it being a book with an MC named John and the man I was dating at the time also being named John. Self preservation and all.I've read a fair few of Nicholas Sparks books and I always find them rather ploying. Sparks is not an organic writer... he seeks to make you feel a particular way and uses heavy-handed tactics to invest the reader, it's the way he writes. Leaving out the whole bible thumping and slut, vice and imperfection shaming nature of his writing - for the moment - I will say that this is very similar to all his other books. You've read one Sparks book and you've pretty much read them all. He doesn't really have a style, unless you get into the jesus preach and waify inhumanly perfect female characters. Sparks, what is so wrong with a female who enjoys a glass of wine or two, huh? Why does she have to be depressed to drink, you judgmental ass? I digress.I understand why romantics hate this novel, I really do! I, however, do not hate it. I wouldn't say I particularly like it but it has some merrit. There is a lot of shit heaped on this novel for the ending and I think that's crap, personally. I know Sparks hammers an ideal world into some peoples head with his writing and makes everyone think that love means riding into the sunset together. I prefer the real world... gritty, vice-riddled and chaotic as it may be... and whilst I don't think this could be said to live there, the ending is closer to it than the ending everyone seemed to want.I've really got nothing left to say about this. I remember drawing paralells to what I knew about Afghanistan and what he wrote but I just can't be bothered. People aren't reading this for real life soldier accuracy anyways.It's been done - and better - so I guess I'll just say, read it if you want... don't if you don't want, you aren't missing anything.Just because I cannot resist: