Book Review3 out of 5 stars toLord of the Flies, a coming-of-age novel written in 1954 byWilliam Golding, who was a Nobel Prize winner. Most people have either read this book during middle/high school (in America or Great Britain), or have heard of it because of its supposed cannibalism story line. But wait... it wasn't cannibalism -- huge exaggeration to set straight, right from the beginning. But let's back up... At a time of war, a group of pre-teen boys are in a plane that crashed onto an isolated and jungle-like island. They are forced to grow up quickly when they have no food, water or shelter easily at their disposal, e.g. in the kitchen cabinet. It's a story about how to take care of yourself in the jungle when you have nothing but raw supplies. The novel is full of themes from loss of innocence to the differences between savagery and civilization. It asks the question what type of a person are you -- a leader or a follower? The story charts the actions of the boys as they grow up, hunt for food, build shelter and learn how to work together. They divide into opposing teams, trying to see how is the best leader. They learn to help each other and watch others die.I read the book once and tried a second several years ago, but what I realized is that the world today is a very different place. While I appreciate the themes and characters being brought to life in this novel, it didn't have as strong an impact on me as it has for others. I think it may be the kind of novel that is best read when you are a teenager, as it helps with understanding things are the same today as they were 75 years ago, in terms of growing up and learning how to work together. When you've got a classic like this one paired up against something like The Hunger Games, it's a tough choice. They deal with the same sort of context in terms of "survival of the fittest," but one is a dangerous game and another is an accident. I like them both, but I'd choose The Hunger Games, even tho it's less well-written. "Teen/Childhood" angst, lessons to be learned, education versus playtime, all great concepts both books addressed, but the difference is when a book almost goes out of the way to try to teach me something versus it naturally happening. I still believe it's a good book, and it should be read, but if it were written today, I don't think it would be as popular.About MeFor those new to me or my reviews... here's the scoop: I read A LOT. I write A LOT. And now I blog A LOT. First the book review goes on Goodreads, and then I send it on over to my WordPress blog athttps://thisismytruthnow.com, where you'll also find TV &amp; Film reviews, the revealing and introspective 365 Daily Challenge and lots of blogging about places I've visited all over the world. And you can find all my social media profiles to get the details on the who/what/when/where and my pictures. Leave a comment and let me know what you think. Vote in the poll and ratings. Thanks for stopping by.