The Princeis a political treatise written by a Florentine diplomat, Niccolo Machiavelli. Written at a time of foreign invasion and rule of different parts of Italy, Machiavelli wrote this treatise and dedicated to Lorenzo di Piero de' Medici of the Medici family in the hope that one strong ruler will emerge from that powerful house to drive away the foreign rulers from Italy.This treatise is mainly concerned on the acquisition and preservation of power. It contains Machiavelli's detailed advice to the Princes how to gain power and preserve it enabling them to rule the kingdom for a lifetime and to achieve glory.Machiavelli, being a former diplomat and also a military commander for Florentine Republic, wrote this based on his personal expertise. Thus one can see a comprehensive account on all the areas of concern that a ruler should consider when he comes to power, for according to Machiavelli gaining power is easier than preserving it. However, the advice given by this treatise is controversial for it advocates the Princes to achieve glory by acquiring power and survive being in power by resorting to any means of conduct, even though they would be immoral. For example, Machiavelli says that the Prince must only be careful not to be hated and despised and that if he should choose between love and fear of his subjects that he should chose fear, for that will help him more to be in power. He also says what appears to the eyes of the subjects is what matters and to keep the appearance of being good, merciful and religious. Machiavelli further say a good prince should be a good liar and a deceiver! ReadingThe PrinceI wondered if all the leaders around the world had read this 16th century treatise and taken Machiavelli's advise to heart.As a normal "subject", I don't agree with Machiavelli's views. Then again, I'm no politician or any big shot who think of acquiring power. I'm only a disinterested reader. Nevertheless, from an objective point of view, there is some truth in Machiavelli's wisdom. Overall, it was an interesting read (despite its contents) and I really enjoyed reading the many historical events referred to in it.