My introduction to the fiction of Annie Proulx isThe Shipping News. Published in 1993, the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction was one of several literary awards bestowed on this evocatively stark tale of a Statie, his aunt and two young daughters who relocate from New York state to the (fictional) town of Killick-Claw in Newfoundland for a second start on life. Much like Margaret Atwood, Proulx was on trial in my mind throughout her novel, which like Atwood, never ceases to remind the reader that they're reading a novel. It dazzles with its language and impressively bends conventions, but was difficult for me to love, with story and characters often yoked to the service of its descriptions.The story involves a thirty-six year old oaf from the (fictional) town of Mockingburg, New York named Quoyle, who in the first of several reader-alienating devices, does not have a given name. An all-night clerk at a convenience store, he's befriended by a newspaperman named Partridge, who recommends Quoyle for the staff of a community newspaper as a reporter. A disappointment to his pull-yourself-up-by-the-bootstraps father and walked over by his abusive wife Petal Bear, Quoyle's misfortunes continue when his terminally ill parents commit ritual suicide and Petal is killed in a car accident, having sold their daughters Bunny and Sunshine to sex traffickers on her way out the door.Quoyle's only family (and the most realized character in the novel) is his paternal aunt Agnis Hamm, a yacht upholsterer who suggests her nephew and children need a fresh start. Aunt Agnis is nostalgic for the place she grew up and offers to relocate with them to Quoyle's Point in Newfoundland, their ancestral home where a house has stood unoccupied in coastal wilderness for forty-four years. Braving the wind and sleet and tire tracks standing in for a road, the Quoyles find the house uninhabitable. They move to the nearest town of Killick-Claw, where Partridge has recommended Quoyle for a job on the community newspaper, theGammy Bird.He had never seen so many ads. They went down both sides of the pages like descending stairs and the news was squeezed into the vase-shaped space between. Crude ads with a few lines of type dead center. Don't Pay Anything Until January! No Down Payment! No Interest! As though these exhortations were freshly coined phrases for vinyl siding, rubber stamps, life insurance, folk music festivals, bank services, rope ladders, cargo nets, marine hardware, ship's laundry services, davits, rock band entertainment at the Snowball Lounge, clocks, firewood, tax return services, floor jacks, cut flowers, truck mufflers, tombstones, boilers, brass tacks, curling irons, jogging pants, snowmobiles, Party Night at Seal Flipper Lounge with Arthur the Accordion Ace, used snowmobiles, fried chicken, a smelting derby, T-shirts, oil rig maintenance, gas barbecue grills, wieners, flights to Goose Bay, Chinese restaurant specials, dry bulk transport services, a glass of wine with the pork chop special at the Norse Sunset Lounge, retraining program for fishermen, VCR repairs, heavy equipment operating training, tires, rifles, love seats, frozen corn, jelly powder, dancing at Uncle Demmy's Bar, kerosene lanterns, hull repairs, hatches, tea bags, beer, lumber planing, magnetic brooms, hearing aids.Quoyle's boss is Jack Buggit, a fisherman who launched a newspaper when the government proved inept at retraining him for anything else. Quoyle, whose journalism experience is limited to covering municipal news, is put on the car wreck beat, taking pictures and writing copy for the latest fatality, or using stock photos from past accidents if there hasn't been a new one. The fact that Quoyle's wife was just killed in a car accident seems not to have made an impression on Buggit, who also wants Quoyle to cover the shipping news, checking in each week with the harbormaster Diddy Shovel on which ships are coming and going.TheGammy Birdconsists the managing editor Tert Card, an alcoholic who detests the weather and economic malaise of Newfoundland and fakes almost all the ads in an effort to make the paper look profitable. Billy Pretty is Jack's second cousin, a bachelor who writes a salacious gossip column under the pseudonym Junior Sugg and offers to help Quoyle learn how to navigate the waters. Nutbeem is an English expat who covers the local sex abuse beat and reports foreign news he hears on the radio. Living in the Tickle Motel, where an inoperable phone and a broken doorknob traps them inside the room their first morning there, Quoyle gets a crash course in Newfoundland living.With land passage often more difficult than water, Quoyle pays $50 for a homemade speedboat, which becomes the laughingstock of Killick-Claw. Pooling resources with Aunt Agnis, he begins repairing the house on Quoyle Point, but learns that winter will ultimately close the twenty-eight mile road to town and make travel impossible. The shipping news grows from a list to a column, which permits Quoyle to express an opinion. Agnis tries to match her nephew with one of her seamstresses, but he gravitates toward a young widow named Wavey Prowse whose spouse, he learns, was also a philanderer. He tries to survive in a land determined to kill anyone who crosses it.These waters, thought Quoyle, haunted by lost ships, fishermen, explorers gurgled down into sea holes as black as a dog's throat. Bawling into salt broth. Vikings down the cracking winds, steering through fog by the polarized light of sun-stones. The Inuit in skin boats, breathing, breathing, rhythmic suck of frigid air, iced paddles dipping, spray freezing, sleek back rising, jostle, the boat torn, spiraling down. Millennial bergs from the glaciers, morbid, silent except for waves breaking on their flanks, the deceiving sound of shoreline where there was no shore. Foghorns, smothered gun reports along the coast. Ice welding land to sea. Frost smoke. Clouds mottled by reflections of water holes in the plains of ice. The glare of ice erasing dimension, distance, subjecting senses to mirage and illusion. A rare place.The pleasures ofThe Shipping Newscan be found in Annie Proulx's descriptions. She's peerless when it comes to describing atmosphere, weather or landscapes and transporting the reader to the environment, or the moment, of the scene she's describing. Newfoundland comes to life as an alien world populated by frontiersmen victimized by drowning seas, car accidents or a downturn in the fishing industry. In a misstep, Proulx also throws sexual abuse into the cauldron in a cavalier, almost jokey way, but the novel is at all times unique in its ability to carry the reader away to the far side of the world without judging it or making a mockery of the locals.Tert Card slammed through the door. "I'm shinnicked with cold," he shouted, blowing on his chapped hands, backing his great rear up to the gas heater, "this degree of cold so early in the season takes the heart out of you for the place. Trying to drive along the cliffs this morning with the snow off the ice and the wipers froze up and the car slipping sideways I thought 'It's only November. How can this be?' Started thinking about the traffic statistics. Last January there was hundreds of motor vehicle accidents in Newfoundland. Death, personal injury, property damage. In just one month. That's how the need begins, on a cold day like this coming along the cliff. First it's just a little question to yourself. Then you say something out loud. Then you clip out the coupons in the travel magazines. The brochures come. You put them on the dashboard so you can look at a palm tree while you go over the edge. In February only one thing keeps you going--the air flight ticket to Florida on your dresser. If you make it to March, boy, you'll make it to heaven. You get on that plan in Misky Bay, there's so much ice on the wings and the wind from hell you doubt the plane can make it, but it does, and when it glides and lands, when they throws open the door, my son, I want to tell you the smell of hot summer and suntan oil and exhaust fumes make you cry with pleasure. A sweet place they got down there with the oranges." He sucked in a breath, exhaled a snotty gust of sleek yellow water like a liqueur. Addressed Quoyle. "Now, buddy, you got some kind of a car or boat wreck this week or not?"IfThe Shipping Newswere narrative non-fiction or an article in theNew Yorker, it would be a five-star winner for me. Almost every paragraph is beautifully written, but they didn't add up to compelling fiction. Proulx's imagination falls short after the character of Aunt Agnis, who feels like she should be the protagonist. Quoyle and Waverly's relationship is given hardly any care or attention, while Bunny and Sunshine are also just there, adding nothing (the cute names of these characters adding to their artificiality). Descriptions of Newfoundland are the star attractions and I recommend the novel for those; story and characters small print on the back of the program.