Here are some thoughts on this book.1. I would have been all OVER this in 1897.2. I would like Van Helsing to be quiet.3. I can suspend disbelief for the vampires but not for the blood transfusions4. I know it was 1897 and blood types weren't discovered until 1901 (according to my very in-depth research) (wikipedia) but I still cannot get past it5. The Texan would go outside and randomly shoot things for fun, including things sitting on windowsills of windows in rooms where live people were hanging out, so he was clearly the most realistic character6. VAN HELSING. STOP.7. Oh cool, another chapter from Mina's POV finally - oh nope it's just Van Helsing talking to her the whole time8. This book is called "Dracula" but it should have been called "Dracula Lite" because he was barely in it after the hilarious first few chapters where Jonathan is complaining about his bad breath9. Why can Dracula control wolves??????? Someone explain this to me10. I want a book about Dracula's sister wives11. I'm pretty sure I can still hear Van Helsing rambling about something off in the distance12. The men in this book were 1000 times more dramatic and emotional than the women which was amazing13. For real Jonathan was crying and groaning all over the place and Mina would just look at him like ".....ok."14. Mina is a boss15. THAT'S NOT HOW BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS WORK. IS SHE A UNIVERSAL RECIPIENT???? YOU DON'T KNOW!!!! OMG.EDIT, JULY 2, 2017: Hello there! Thank you for reading my review of the book, DRACULA (Paperback) by Bram Stoker, which I posted on this website, good reads dot com, two years ago when I read this book and still remembered things about it. It is now 2017, and all I remember at this point in my life is that in this book there is a guy named Van Helsing who talks very much, and sometimes there's a vampire named Dracula who has bad breath. I can only assume that is why everybody hated him so much.If you feel the urge to leave me any type of comment about what I said two years ago about the blood transfusions, please take a quick moment to check if your "well, actually" mansplaination re: this series of jokes has already been posted by someone else. I have received many of these already, and I would not want you to waste your valuable time repeating someone else's very helpful and insightful comment!If your comment is something like, "you are stupid for thinking wikipedia is reliable," I greatly appreciate you informing me of this. I definitely included that thing about wikipedia as a sarcastic joke about how little research I did on this topic, but it is still nice to be reminded that the people who read my good reads dot com reviews are very, very smart, so much smarter than me, so extremely helpful, and definitely able to comprehend my sense of humor.In conclusion, thank you for reading my review of the book Dracula on good reads dot com!edit 2/22/19hey fam. y'all have got to stop tryna fact check me. it is 2019. my balance of fucks to give cannot be wasted on goodreads commenters who don't get the joke. take your "well actually" energy to twitter where it belongs (easier to mute/block)