Almost every author will fall into one of two camps: the active, and the reactive. The active author looks at the world around them and decides to write about what they see. They sit down and think: "I'm going to write a story, the subtext of which will provide my analysis of Victorian sexual mores". They then construct the story around this theme, creating characters to show different aspects and constructing a plot which moves from general observations to specific insights.Then there are the reactive authors. These tend to sit down to write a story without necessarily thinking about what the characters or story mean. Reactive authors will often still touch on the same themes as active authors, but instead of deliberate explorations, we get the author's gut reactions.In the Late Victorian, one of the ideas that concerned many authors was the 'New Woman', who was a proto-feminist: she was active, controlled her own life, considered marriage a partnership instead of a master/subservient relationship, took pleasure in her own sexuality, and took part in traditionally male activities, like science, writing, and carousing.Since Stoker is a reactive author, we do not get a deliberate analysis of the New Woman: we don't get a view of how she came about, of what drives her or differentiates her, or of what she might mean for the future of sexual politics. Instead, we get the reactive view: a certain thrill in the sexual freedom she represents, but in the end, she is condemned for being frightening--she is too difficult to control, she does not fit in.The reactive view is nebulous, switching back and forth, never getting to the heart of the matter. Stoker does not include the New Woman because he understands her, but because she troubles him. This applies equally to his other recurrent themes: foreign vs. British identity, homosexual and other non-familial desire, scientific innovation, and ancient mysticism.He includes these things not because he has some insight to reveal to the reader, but because they are concepts he cannot cease bringing up. They are a part of his world, and so he depicts them. These depictions shift and change with his reactions: homosexuality is first condemned, then pitied, then hinted at enticingly, then condemned again.It is one of many things which Stoker desires to speak about, to puzzle through, something which both intrigues and unsettles him, which he cannot help but return to whenever he considers humanity. It is a habit formed by deep emotional connections and powerful memories. He is lost somewhere between the grotesque fall of his former friend Oscar Wilde and his lifelong worship of Wordsworth, whose celebration of homosexuality was an open secret.Unlike Byron, Shelley, and Polidori, who inspired Stoker's tale of Gothic horror, Stoker is not certain what he thinks about the world he lives in. He does not have a philosophy or a voice, he is just a man trying to make it through a world which he cannot come to terms with.It is not an ideal situation for his characters, who must shift with the movement of the tides. The only consistent personality is Van Helsing, who is too ridiculous and overblown to get lost in the text. The others all move from one extreme to the other: now subverting Victorian ways, now upholding them. The longer the story goes on, the more they become a collection of names, losing any distinct identity. Though Stoker works in broad strokes, the characters are not unsympathetic or stupid, but they are there to serve the story, wherever the winds may list.Dracula, himself, is mostly absent: our heroes try to create an identity for him with their fears and assumptions, but none are very certain that their assumptions about Dracula are correct. They point out several times that their own violent hunt for the count is not terribly civilized or sane, and may not be any more justified than Dracula's own need to feed. What carries them along every time is their own self-righteousness--but coming from such scattered, unsure characters, it is hardly a convincing justification.There is a lot of elbow room in reactive books, because there is no distinct heart to the story, no central philosophy driving it--which appeals to a certain breed of academic: Stoker touches upon most of the controversial topics of his day, but never creates any definitive view of them. Things are truly open for interpretation, and the critical works in this collection take full advantage.First Dracula is homosexuality, then he represents a gender switch, then he is the capitalist monopoly which destroys fledgling British Utopian Socialism--and certainly, all these are unconscious influences on Stoker, but it is too much to say that Draculaisany one of them. He is a collection of fears, insecurities, desires, and popular topics thrown in by Stoker as they came to him.Most of the critics seem to recognize that Stoker was no great thinker--just an average, well-off, educated man with some talent for flowing prose. This being the case, it feels silly for them to declare one argument or another fundamentally sums up the text. Many think a declarative style lends strength to a somewhat vague analysis, but as aNew Historicist, I prefer the critic give the author only as much credit as seems warranted.That isn't to say there isn't a great deal to be gleaned about the period from Stoker--indeed, his insecurity often reveals much more than he intends--but we can only learn as much as we might from talking to the average man of the period, as opposed to studying the expert opinion of an 'active' author.As a story, it is entertaining, and the reader may be surprised at how different the original vampire is from the one we are now familiar with. There are some aspects of the book that I think would be interesting to see in film, but there are many other winding, long-winded passages which are better left out. The book goes rather slowly in the middle, maintaining roughly the same conflict with no new developments, and we are reduced from several different epistolary views to a more-or-less streamlined, neutral voice as the bland heroes grow more uniformly alike.The conclusion is rather abrupt, and we never do get to a real showdown to match all the buildup of Dracula's many-faced evil, but this makes sense. Since Stoker is unsure precisely what he means to get at with his book, we can hardly expect him to create a viable, satisfying conclusion. The ending is certainly final, but it is not a decisive advance upon the book's themes, but a safe retreat to normalcy.As all horror authors must, Stoker reaches for his own fears and insecurities to drive his story along, but he is not a self-searching man, so when he comes to the time for an ending, he instinctively rejects all of the vague things which unsettle him, trying to do away with them suddenly and violently, as befits a man who is out of ideas.And so, the showdown the story deserved is absent--we never face Dracula in his own domain, under his own power. His dark castle remains shut up, and the mystery of who he was and what motivated him is left unconquered. Due to one of the many small errors which permeate Stoker's text, even the conclusion can be called into question.Though we are assured that life has returned to normal, that things are now safe again for the straitlaced Victorian family--that homosexuality, feminine power, foreign influence, and pagan mysticism have all been destroyed--the assertion rings hollow, because Stoker never deals with any of these fears. He never manages to meet them with the right tools to overcome them.In the end--and as we always suspected--Dracula is simply too pervasively perverse for the upright Victorian man to kill, because as an average Victorian man, Stoker simply doesn't know where to strike. Like too many conservative thinkers, he has cultivated his own naivete by avoidance until he cannot comprehend how to oppose his enemy.So Dracula lives on in our world, growing in power, his vast array of subversive powers getting stronger with time. He withstands the full force of Victorian ideals, then outlasts them, watching them crumble. It shouldn't have been surprising: as Byron, Polidori, and Shelley all hinted, it wasn't Dracula who was the myth, but Victorian morality. It isn't heroic to oppose sex and death, it is tragic: strike them as hard and as often as you like, then watch them rise again. And so Dracula does.