Review After Re-Reading - February 9, 2012Rating: 3 stars!Although I still liked it, I have to lower the rating by two stars because:1. The book is really intended for children as it is very whimsical and illogical. We husbands cannot give an empty wallet to our wives and tell them that there is our salary inside and expect them to be happy.Honey, here is my wallet, what is essential is invisible to your eyes!2. Saint-Ex contradicted himself so several times via his characters. For example, he left his small planet because he was unhappy with his rose. So, why did he not go back right away since he was able to do so via the migratory birds. Why did he have to let the snake bite him for his soul to go back to his planet? (Ok. This is just my interpretation).3. This just cannot be in the same rank together with my other top favorite books like Gabriel Garcia Marquez'sOne Hundred Years of Solitude, Doris Lessing'sThe Golden Notebookor Vladimir Nabokov'sLolita. Although I admire Saint-Ex, his works (I read two including this) cannot hold candle to the works of these 3 favorite authors of mine. I know this is debatable but it's just a matter of preference.However, this is still my favoritechildren'sbook along with E. B. White'sCharlotte's Web.To took me so long to figure this for myself: sometimes we love books not because they are really good but because of the memories associated with them. I think that's the main reason why I rated this 5 stars when I joined Goodreads.Don't get me wrong. While re-reading, this book still put a smile on my face. I just figured today that the reason was the memories. Had this been my first time to read this, I would have rated this, for whatever it's worth, also with 3-stars (I like this!)Original Review in March 2009 when I joined GoodreadsRating: 5 stars!First read in full sometime in 1992 when I was in collegeI will not be ashamed to admit that this is my favorite novel of them all. I read this when I was young and I can still recall the detail of each encounter or planet where he went. Who can also forget the famous line: "What is essential is invisible to the eye"? Even Ruffa Gutierrez quoted this line when she competed in Miss World beauty pageant a couple of decades ago. For all its ethereal beauty, meaningful lines and timeless messages, this novel is one that I will read again before I die and I hope Jillian will encourage her kids in the future to read this too.