We've just been in Italy for a couple of days, and luckily there was a bookshop a few doors down from the place we were staying. I bought some Italian books to try and make some progress on this language where I am still a total beginner. One of them wasIl piccolo principe.Well... having already read it in six languages (English, Swedish, French, German, Spanish and Russian), I could mostly follow the text. I don't think I know it by heart and am just pretending to read it, since I discovered earlier this year that Icouldn'tread it in Slovenian. There must be a technical name for what I'm doing, but I don't know what it is! Anyway, I'm sure I improved my vocabulary and grammar; every page, in fact almost every paragraph, I felt I'd learned something new. But I was disappointed to find that I couldn't enjoy it at all as poetry. I don't know if that was because the translation was uninspired, or, more likely, simply because my Italian is still so bad that I'm basically reading it as though it's weird French.Damn. That which is essential is invisible to the eye, and only with the heart can one see rightly, but my heart is still unable to see the true form ofIl piccolo principe. What do I need to do to awaken my innerbambino? I will reread it and see if the book can tame me.____________________Rereading worked very well! The book is doing a fine job of taming me: just as the wise old fox explains, words which once looked like ten thousand other words have become my friends. I look at them, and now they make me happy because they remind me of my favorite passages inIl piccolo principe. I have divided further explanation under two headings:Grown-upsI can understand over 80% of the words and over 90% of the sentences. I am starting to get some feeling for the grammar. The clitic system, in particular, is interestingly different from the French one I am used to. Clitics are by default postverbal affixes, and I'm fascinated by the exotic phenomenon of clitic-climbing. I still haven't got the verb inflections properly sorted out, but there's no doubt that they're starting to look familiar.ChildrenI can finally hear the Little Prince's voice in Italian! He is not quite as annoying, funny and adorable as he is in French, but maybe a third reading will fix that.