Robert Graves does a remarkable job bringing the various Caesars to life in this book. But, oddly enough, the least compelling Caesar is Claudius. That's crazy, because Claudius--due to his lameness, his stutter, and his assumed idiocy--managed to survive most of his family (and the reign of his insane nephew Caligula) to become emperor in 41 A.D. And he was agoodemperor--definitely the best and most capable of the Caesars since Augustus.That makes Claudius a particularly enticing figure to speculate about, and perhaps embellish a little, but Robert Graves instead uses Claudius as a convenient narrator who happens to live throughout the turbulent years of Augustus, Tiberius, and Caligula. In the introduction toClaudius the God and His Wife Messalina, Graves makes a point to say that his reviewers have accused him of simply regurgitating Suetonius and Tacitus, but he also uses many other writers like Josephus, Seneca, and Claudius himself to create a narrative that is as historically accurate as possible. Claudius is never the star of these histories or even of his own writings, so he acts as the historian for his own autobiography. He says at the outset of the book that he's going to relate his history as objectively as he can, and that requires him to segue frequently into explanations of which Julio-Claudians are doing what and why. Because this is written as a narrative, with Claudius relating rather than showing the action to the reader, that leaves little room for Claudius to break out and become a real character.I've included spoilers below, although all "spoilers" here are historical ones. If you aren't familiar with the history of the early Roman emperors and would like to be surprised while reading this book as a work of fiction, by all means don't read them! Otherwise, if you don't mind knowing the broad course of events, the spoilers are safe.I have two main problems with this book, one technical and the other historical. The technical issue is that it has no narrative arc. Since Claudius relates the events of his life as they occur, there isn't really anything tying it together. It ends with(view spoiler)[about two pages of description on how Claudius is acclaimed as emperor by the soldiers that find him in the palace. That's it! It lacks a truly satisfying scene of Claudius facing up to the Senate or consolidating his position, which could have been a great climax or ending for the novel(hide spoiler)]. The facts of the Caesars' reigns are so convoluted that, if you choose to stick with one main character, it's necessary for you as an author to make astoryout of that history. Instead, Graves goes for accuracy above all else. Characters appear and then die horribly within two pages, without having a real effect on Claudius. It's a good introduction to the period and to the many colorful people that inhabited the early empire, but it's not particularly great, fleshed-out fiction. It's all narrative related by Claudius after the fact, rather than actual live scenes happening between the characters.The historical issue is that Graves relies on the ancient historians to create the character of Livia.(view spoiler)["Livia poisons everyone" is my least favorite interpretation of the deaths that plagued the Julio-Claudians, and "evil stepmother Livia" is too much of a caricature for me. The relationship between Livia and Augustus especially rubbed me the wrong way; it paints Augustus as a victim, when he probably was "getting sick" of his own volition to stay off of the battlefield. Since Livia is the catalyst for so many deaths or events in the book, Graves has to write a scene where she reveals everything to Claudius for inclusion in his history. I did like the reason she gives for her explanation--she wants to ensure that she is deified, because goddesses aren't punished for murder--and the idea that Livia would have to begrudgingly befriend Claudius later in Tiberius's reign. But it's a real failing that the book has to explicitly have Livia tell Claudius her methods 2/3 of the way through.(hide spoiler)]The Caligula parts of the book are the best, possibly because Graves has so much to work with. The battle that Caligula has with Neptune--in which the soldiers throw their javelins at the waves and then collect seashells as booty--is particularly funny. The conversation between Claudius and Caligula when Caligula reveals himself as a god made me laugh out loud (and it's a good example of how good Graves is when he writes scenes, rather than narrative!). I also really liked the idea that(view spoiler)[Caligula as a boy was responsible for scaring Germanicus to death with "witchcraft"(hide spoiler)].This book is widely regarded as a masterpiece of historical fiction. Given that it was published in 1934 and pioneered the genre, I'll give Graves the credit he's due. But I truly believe there's ample room for a subversive or character-driven novel that features Claudius (or Livia!!), and that's the book that I would have rather read.