O, wonder!How many goodly creatures are there here!How beauteous mankind is! O brave new world,That has such people in't!Miranda,The Temptest, William ShakespeareRead as part ofThe Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003.My reading of this book has been an adventure in itself, not just in a metaphorical sense but in an incredibly boring physical adventure. I began it in September, but then I was marvellously interrupted by the 2016 Rio Olympics and that put any kind of continuation at bay for at least the rest of the year. I was 3/4 of the way through, but once I found myself in a mental state capable of getting back to this book, I read it straight through (with only two Six Nations Rugby Union matches to stop me, this time).I'd not suggest I didn't enjoy the book enough to keep me going, but apparently Sport trumps Utopian-facade Dystopian sci-fi at the moment."A love of nature keeps no factories busy."The setting up of the book is quite a wonderful experience. There are glimmers of our own world here, things that aren't quite so obvious at first but definitely exist. The continuing plundering of hate and fear-mongering by the media is in evident now as it is inBrave New World, though who is doing the peddling is a little different. The time and place are almost irrelevant-whether it is 10 years in the future of 1000-because we can still envision these things are happeningnow.It is an English-heavy perspective of the future, which is fair enough considering the author, though perhaps off-key a little. The characters are all fairly vague, which only solidifies how non-unique they are, how they are so very much treated like numbers and statistics rather than individuals. Take any poll now, any survey, any service and you'll know how we are all becoming just statistics.But the characters aren't necessarily meant to be anything heavy, and that's the point. Even Bernard is pretty much like anyone else in the end, despite him always feeling (and looking) different. In the end, we all just want to belong, at leastsomewhere."You can't consume much if you sit still and read books."The underlying message of this book-and of quite a few other futuristic, dystopian kind of books, is thatReading Books Is Good For You. Most of the good books are there to help you think and form your own opinions. The books that throw one kind of opinion in your face and force you to believe it are mostly known as newspapers or comment sections. Thankfully we haven't quite gotten to the point where books are being banned, but we're certainly at a point where opinions are being repressed and, if you have an opinion yourself that isn't quite what everyone else likes, then you're wrong and probably racist."You can't consume much if you sit still and read books"is probably the best quote, not just of this book, but of the whole genre. Consumerism is a rather broad term: under capitalism it is despicable, but under socialism it could be wonderful. We all need to consume to live, but we don't need to consume as much as they do inBrave New World. Not mending, not bothering to even try to think about fixing things,not thinking. Being told what to do, being told how to do everything, being told how to live your life. And for what? Being "happy", without wars and famine and disease? Without ageing, wrinkles-without boundaries. It's almost as if there are no rules."Words can be like X-rays, if you use them properly-they'll go through anything. You read and you're pierced."As for why it isn't quite on par with something like1984, I suppose it doesn't quite hit as hard as1984did. The writing isn't bad, but neither is it wonderful or particularly evocative. There is a kind of poetry missing to the writing, it is missing a sense of doom co-mingled with a certain kind of brightness.It was good, but it didn't quite show me the way after it made me think. Thinking is good and it should be actively encouraged, but there are times when thinking is not always enough and, once opinions are formed, some kind of semblance of what should come next is needed."Actual happiness always looks pretty squalid in comparison with the over-compensations for misery... And being contended has none of the glamour of a good fight against misfortune..."I suppose part of my problem with these kinds of books is that without the bad there'd be no good. No thing can exist without an opposite: we need evil to understand good, and starvation to understand satiation, and horrible to understand nice. ButBrave New Worldunderstands that concept through the use ofSoma. No use for opposites in a Utopian society where every one is happy: in fact, no need for the word happy. There is onlyBeing.Blog|Reviews|Instagram|Twitter