3.5 StarsMaybe a little bit spoilery?? Idk, just a little. It's the third book so I kinda have to?I feel like I should have taken notes while reading VOYAGER because this book was all.over.the.place. Kinda like this review will be because seriously, it's EVERYWHERE.If I weren't so invested in Jamie and Claire I can say with certainty that the third installment in Gabaldon's time-traveling-trash-romance-for-lit-nerds-history-beast-of-a-book almost had me calling it quits on this series. And that f***ing sucks because IlovedOUTLANDER!I am a house divided over this book.I loved it.I hated it.I was weirded out by it.If you take out all of the unnecessary fluff and weed your way through the weird shit, VOYAGER is an incredible book. Unfortunately, Gabaldon and her editors didn't see the need to take out anything, and thusly, you have 870 pages of what I would describe as borderlineridiculousness.I like big books and I can not lie...and I am not lying when I say that this was way too long. And the last 20% is weird. Like....really, really, really, weird.Oh and let's not forget all the happy little "coincidences". Actually, this book could have been called"Jamie and Claire and all the Perfectly Timed Coincidences"and it would fit perfectly. Pretty much 80% of the book is all action, action, action, and more action. Something is ALWAYS happening and somehow things just all fall into place with one of those little happy coincidences suddenly happening and everything is fine and thensuddenlysomethingelsehappensandohnofightfightfightpiratesvodooshipwreckskidnapBETRAYAL! But it's okay because OH LOOK ANOTHER HAPPY COINCIDENCE! I would have enjoyed seeing Claire and Jamie and the others just enjoying being together again. You do get a bit of that, but it's pretty much overshadowed by all the other shit going on or all that unnecessary fluff I mentioned, and usually Claire and Jamie's bedroom discussions are over some secret that Jamie has kept from Claire because he was scared of losing her even though he promised to never be dishonest with her and now she's pissed because he kept it from her and... I won't give anything juicy away for anyone who hasn't read it. But, ugh.VOYAGER does have redeeming qualities, enough that I will be continuing the series. I loved Jamie and Claire's reunion, it was the moment we had all been waiting for! It just took 2.5 million pages of filler to get there. And undoubtedly Jamie's POV waswaymore interesting than Claires this time around. So much happened. A lot of it heartbreaking, a lot of it heartwarming. If you are a fan of the OUTLANDER series so far I would say it's worth continuing the series, and it's worth reading VOYAGER. Just be prepared to get frustrated, annoyed, and possibly lose your patients.I guess what I am saying is that the good parts make all the bad (and weird) parts bearable.