ICOFA (InCase of Fairy Abduction)In the event that you are abducted by fairies, please adhere to the following guidelines so that I don't have to watch or read about you blundering through fairyland like an incompetent idiot.1. Never thank a fairy for services rendered.2. Never eat fairy food.3. Never dance with fairies.4. Never strike a bargain with a fairy unless you've agreed on the fine points.The Iron King is a book about a sixteen year old girl, Meghan Chase. Can I advise all people reading this review: never be sixteen. It's a horrible age. Avoid it as much as you can.Meghan is dragged into the fairy world when her younger brother is replaced by a changling. She soon discovers she has deeper ties to fairy than she'd originally thought.The Iron King, like many modern day fairy tales, tries to adhere to old school fairy myths yet still manages to balls up and humanize certain fairies with all the eagerness a coming of age book about a sixteen year old on a magical adventure CAN balls up and humanize fairies. I take particular exception to the depiction of famous fairy Robin Puck's character and the introduction of romantic lead, Ash.The fact that Robin Puck has been turned from a wicked, mischeivous sprite with a penchant for disaster, into competition for a sixteen year old's affections was really just traumatizing to me. Suddenly Puck is sexy, serious, occasionally brooding and suave. Excuse me while I choke back tears and reread A Midsummer Night's Dream.We've gone from:To:[image error]Emo fairies are the new mythology, folks.Meghan Chase is not a complete idiot. Her handling of the Goblins and her occasional ability to use her brain redeems what would otherwise be another atrocious YA paranormal adventure. The two or three times she redeems herself and isn't completely useless, however, is quickly overshadowed by her inability to move the fuck out of the way of charging, rampaging monsters trying to eat her. She has a serious case of Damsel in Distress.Over all, the story isn't too bad. It's simply hard to ignore all the elements so obviously drawn from other inspiration. The Packrats are cute versions of the female packrat in The Labryinthe, Grim is so much like any other talking cat guide that I'm wondering if there's a book written on the subject for aspiring authors. The whole plot of getting the younger sibling back from the fairies is already such an overused cliche.The thing is, I did kind of enjoy this book after a while, though it took a long time to stop rolling my eyes. I will read the next book in this series but only because it left off on a little bit of a cliff hanger and I want to find out what happens next.*shakes fist*Emo Fairy wants your soul! And $27.99 for this book...