The Iron Kingwas an enjoyable read, but not exactly a memorable one. And while there were certain elements to it that were fairly original, the majority of the story felt like the same old tired scenario that Holly Black and Melissa Marr have already used. And because I'm ornery for details - the linguistically accurate term isfay, notfey. Just saying.For a protagonist, I certainly enjoyed Meghan Chase more than whosit from the Holly Black book and Madam Skank from the other author's book. Though prone to rash decisions and over-assumptive, Meghan seemed to have a good head on her shoulders and, when she wasn't jumping to conclusions, was a pretty reasonable character. Unlike a lot of other protagonists in fairy books, Meghan's motives and reasons for acting made sense to me, and she was easy to relate to - a definite plus. As for the other characters inThe Iron Fey, I have to mention Grimalkin (the talking cat) and Puck...the dude fromA Midsummer Night's Dream. Puck makes so many appearances in fiction nowadays, he's practically a stock character, and while I'm not sure I think he's a viable love interest, he was certainly a fun, sympathetic character. I like the way Kagawa portrayed him. Grimalkin the talking cat was definitely my favorite character - by a long shot. I guess I just have a thing for talking animals with a know-it-all and a Nell-if-I-care attitude. I tell you what, Grimalkin definitely had the best lines, that's for sure.And it just wouldn't be a modern fairy story without Meghan falling in love with a fairy...dude. Sorry, but for me, Prince Ash was the worst character in the book. I know he and Meghan are going to end up together - surely - but it's a shame. One of the drawbacks I've encountered in paranormal fiction is the near-constant appearance of this type of love interest: the smooth-talking, cocky, oft-smirking bad boy(view spoiler)[usually with a rakish/"experienced" past, too, which authors, for some puzzling reason,loveto point out to their readers. Color me unamused(hide spoiler)]. I just don't like bad boy characters as love interests, and I'd rather see them done-in than reformed, to be honest. So every scene with Ash had me rolling my eyes. And really, it's the reason I'm not keen on continuing the series withThe Iron DaughterandThe Iron Queen- I don't think I can stomach more Ash. Blah.It's a shame, too, because Julie Kagawa is a more than decentwriter. Her style isn't overly-wordy and flowing with pace-slowing descriptions, but it isn't choppy, either. However, there was a repetitious pattern I noticed inThe Iron King's plot. I can't tell you how many times Meghan and company would encounter scary, nasty creatures...then escape. Then they'd encounter more scary, nasty creatures...then escape. Here's something that I've noticed: it really doesn't matter how many scary, nasty creatures the characters encounter. It really doesn't. Because if the reader has guessed that nobody's gonna die, and nobody's gonna lose a limb...it just doesn't have the same effect.As far as fairy books go, I'm not exactly sure why authors feel the need to portray fairies thesame, wornway. The problem with portraying fairies amorally is that you really can't turn around and call the 'good guys.' Both of the courts (Summer and Winter, if I remember correctly) were portrayed the same way - so who are the good guys, and who are the bad guys? When the "good guy" characters act almost exactly like the "bad guy" characters, what kind of contrast exists? Tell me, how are Mab and Titania any different? And yet one is queen of the Unseelie Court...Unseelie usually implying malevolent. No contrast. And that's what frustrated me about the portrayal of fairies.(view spoiler)[I've since discovered that Lesley Livingston and Eoin Colfer do a MUCH better job at portraying fairies and fairy culture. I would suggest their books either in addition or instead of this one(hide spoiler)].Though I sound critical, I still enjoyedThe Iron King, and I'm glad I read it. It was entertaining, but I don't really feel an overwhelming urge to continue the series.