Before I begin this review, I'd like to clear something up. Keep in mind, it is complete fact*:If there were 100 women in the world, 90 of those people would think long hair on a guy is gross. Of the 10 remaining women who aren't totally turned off by long hair, 8 of those women are scifi, fantasy, or romance authors.Julie Kagawa, what the heck? You took a guy that could be a total babe (okay, who am I kidding, he still is) and gave him "silky" long locks. Blech.This book took my ultimate nightmare topic--fairies--and turned it into something I could stomach, nay, something Ithoroughly enjoyed. Meghan Chase is a teenager living in backwoods Louisiana. She isn't very popular but she does have a best friend. (whose family and house shevery conveniently yet unrealisticallynever sees) Surprise! (but not really, this isn't really a spoiler) It turns out she is part-fey and must go into the Nevernever (I know, right?) to save her kidnapped brother. The only thing this book was missing was David Bowie in his tights. I mean, we all like Labyrinth, right? There are a few more similarities--namely, the poisonous fruit and the pack rats besides the baby (or 4-year old) retrieval quest. I also felt some similarities toThe Princess Bridewhich is a pretty badass book compliment.Kagawa works in references toA Midsummer Night's Dream, both in terms of fey folklore and character names/traits but it doesn't feel forced. I have to say, I truly appreciated the update to current times. Fairy folklore is pretty alienating to me so I was/am excited that I was engaged and interested in what was going on despite so many random creatures and words.There are definitely a lot of characters and potential side plots that are introduced but it didn't bother me in this book. I knew going into it that it is the beginning of a series so I wasn't expecting everything to be wrapped up with a bow at the end. (this is very much NOT the case) Perhaps it was a case of great book at the right time, but I really hope not. I read it in one day, so it is definitely a quick read. The narrative moved quickly, the plot was fun, the pacing was mostly perfect (the ending felt a little hurried) and I couldn't find too many typos or annoying grammatical errors. (contrary to this review, which is probably riddled with them) And if ponytail-length hair on the male love interest is all I have to complain about, then this book must be pretty awesome:-)Can't wait to read the rest of the series!*Source: My opinion.