PRE-CONCEPTIONS:Singular White Male DominantI thought I might write down some of my thoughts in anticipation of reading this book, so that I can see what changes (if any) I go through.I believed in God, until I was about 13 years old.He was singular, white, male, Anglo-Saxon and Protestant. Anglican, actually, although back then, it was the Church of England.I can't remember exactly why I started to doubt the existence of God. However, suddenly, I believed that there was no God with the same level of certainty that I once believed there was a God. Suddenly, I was on the other side of the divide, without any doubt or agnosticism, an atheist. It was as if I'd gone through the looking glass and was now looking back in exactly the opposite direction. I've enjoyed the same perspective ever since.Secular MoralityWhat replaced religion was a secular humanism. The humanism allowed me to discard all of the God bit, and retain the underlying sense of good or morality.I've never accepted that morality is the exclusive domain of religion or God. It belongs to (and is made by) people, not religion or God. It existed before God, if not before gods.Multiple Choice DeitiesSo how do I regard God now? Why don't I believe in Him, Her, It or Them?Humanity needs something that explains things, and potentially sits above us and in judgement of disputes between us.Across time and space, we've satisfied this need in diverse ways. I don't know whether atheism was the first or last option. However, I suspect the next, if not the first, was polytheism. We resorted to multiple Gods or gods to explain things.Who knows how many centuries this belief lasted for. Then gradually monotheism arose and started to dominate.Whereas polytheism had both male and female gods, most monotheism (apart from Islam) has a male God.Man made God in his own image,but more importantly it was male Man who made God in his own image.The Persuasive Power of ConsensusMy scepticism derives from these facts or beliefs: we needed an answer, we made one or more up, we opted for one solution and then another, and finally we men opted for something as like us as you could conceive (immaculately).It's the very coexistence of different options, the absence of consensus, that persuades me that God is a fabrication.If my God exists in truth, why don't other believers agree with me?How can believers persuade me, if they can't convince each other?In a way, I don't feel any compulsion to adopt any one version of theism, while there are multiple contending versions.Liberal Secular HumanismusHumanism is what remains for some, when you abandon religion or a belief in God.Religion can inform humanism as well. However, the secular aspect is the beginning of something more problematic.If any particular religion believes that it is right, then it follows that every other view is wrong.Traditionally, religion has dealt with others as heretics or infidels.Secular humanism grew out of a philosophical movement that embraced tolerance or liberalism.One religion or denomination should tolerate another.However, this requires atheism, having abandoned and rejected religion, to tolerate religion, even though it regards it as wrong.A new sort of relativism arises. Religion might be wrong for me, but it might be right for you.I have no desire to stop you believing in what explanation works for you.Thus, secular humanism and Christianity have reached some kind of peaceful co-existence.Jihadist IslamIt becomes more problematic when you juxtapose either Christianity and Islam, or secular humanism and Islam.Jihadist Islam has tended to emerge in different communities and contexts to secular humanism.There is less of a tradition of mutual tolerance (perhaps because Islam has always been under threat?). There is a greater differential on more earthly issues like the role of women in society.If the equality of women is a fundamental tenet of secular humanism, is it supposed to tolerate a version of Islam that denies the equality of women?Tolerance FactorsWhat is the limit of tolerance?This is an issue that currently divides the Left.It's exploited by authors likeNick Cohen,who regard it as a sign of hypocrisy on the Left.In a way, his sniping makes you question whether, if you don't believe that something is right (and you believe it is wrong), that makes it wrong for everybody.If so, if religion is wrong for me, does that make it wrong for you as well?Tolerance or Militarism?The real challenge, then, is how militant should secular humanism be?If it believes that religion is wrong, a fabrication, what should it do about it?Should it try to exterminate religion? Should it approach all religion the way Christianity approaches Jihadism?Is secular humanism weak, because it prefers to tolerate what it disagrees with?Is sectarian religion superior to secular humanism? If so, why?POST-CONCEPTIONS:Killer ArgumentsSo what was I expecting from Richard Dawkins, and did I get it?I suppose I thought he might come up with some killer arguments that, when tried out on a Catholic priest of 40 years experience, would lead him (!) to declare,"OK, you win! Fuck God! Fuck the Pope! Fuck Catholicism!"Did he deliver? Nope. Did he try? Not really.Dawkins preaches to the converted, when I wanted to witness him convert the preachers.I Can't Believe You Believe This Shit!If pushed, I have to say that I don't disagree with much of what Dawkins says. It's just how he says it.I was especially disappointed in his tone. I'd hoped that he would somehow play by the rules of debating. No ad hominem attacks. No ad deum attacks. No blows beneath the belt.Instead, Dawkins adopts an aggressive adversary stance, like he seriously believes religionists are all fucking crazy and, left to their own devices, threaten the lives of everybody else.His tone in the beginning is scornful, scowling and sarcastic, then he indulges in a bit of name calling, until finally he pulls out all the big and little adjectives: smug, nasty, fatuous, unpalatable, vindictive, presumptuous, divisive, odious, horrifying, repellent, wanton, callous, obnoxious.His attitude towards all religions seems to be, I can't believe you believe this shit!Fight to the DeathYou don't get the sense Dawkins respects the other side of the debate.You don't get the sense he wants a polite and reasonable adjudication at the end. He is fighting an age-old battle. He wants to win at all costs.He doesn't want to take any prisoners, nor does he want there to be any survivors. He wants to see the corpse of his gladiatorial opponent dirty, bloodied and lifeless before him. He fully expects that, if he were to lose, the same outcome would apply to him. He would wind up dead, and with no prospect of Heaven.His scorn, therefore, is both anticipatory and retrospective. He is fighting for his life, while trying to reciprocate the contempt with which religionists have held atheism in the past.His contempt is all the greater, because of the imperiousness of religion.However, he chooses to rise or descend to the occasion, by attacking religion with an equal and opposite imperiousness.Accepting the Good Faith of JihadistsThe irony is that Dawkins seems to be more accepting of thegood faithof jihadists than other religionists are.He finds all theists, deists and pantheists equally ridiculous.His ridicule makes no distinctions. There's no point in differentiating between particular beliefs.On the other hand, he finds it amusing that Christians (not to mention many agnostics and atheists) can't believe that jihadists believe their shit.In other words, I genuinely believe my shit, but I honestly can't believe you genuinely believe your shit.If it's all shit anyway, what difference does it make that one belief is allegedly shittier than another? We're all of us stuck in the crapper!In effect, Dawkins says you can't fight religious fundamentalism without fighting religion.Religion is the root of the problem, not fundamentalism or Jihadism per se.Alternative Belief SystemsDawkins' approach doesn't really provide an adequate foundation for the co-existence of alternative belief systems.If you accept that religion dwells in the realm of faith and belief, what makes your own belief (whether religious, agnostic or atheist) any better or worse than someone else's?Should we have a laissez-faire system when it comes to freedom of conscience?Should we respect a belief, even if we think it's weird or a clear and present danger?Whether to Cower in DisbeliefSo how can a society exist harmoniously, if everybody believes that everybody else's beliefs are ridiculous?Even if you privately believe religionists are deluded, do you say so? Do you signal your view in the title of your book?Do you simply hold back and wait for the opportunity to start bombing their safe havens and strongholds when you think there's enough of a case? What if they start shooting the staff of abortion clinics? Do you fight back?What if they outnumber you? Do you give them a chance, even in a democracy, of achieving an electoral majority and taking power? Is any one redneck government better than any other? At what point do you act in self-defence?Do you just shut up and keep your head down? When it comes to the first amendment, should you plead the fifth amendment?Perhaps, things haven't really changed that much since Bertrand Russell's time:"The immense majority of intellectually eminent men disbelieve in Christian religion, but they conceal the fact in public, because they are afraid of losing their incomes."The Quest for Being, Meaning and UnderstandingI still find it anomalous that we have to deal with the most fundamental aspects of being and meaning on the basis of belief rather than fact.On the other hand, if it were proven beyond reasonable (or any) doubt that God did not exist (or having once existed, he had carked it), we'd be able to study the phenomenon of religion itself from the point of view of, not just philosophy, but the sciences, such as anthropology, sociology and psychology.For once, we'd be able to legitimately work out why people continue to believe their/our/this shit. Faith would no longer obstruct philosophy or science or the desire of humanity to understand itself and the universe.Why must we forever remain in the lap of the gods?SOUNDTRACK:Queen - "In The Lap Of The Gods... Revisited" (Live in Japan 1975)https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ttUr...