I'm reviewing this set in it's entirely b/c individually this series drives me crazy and I had to read the entire series before I could make up my mind if I like it. In the end I did like it and a prediction (actually more like 2) did come true. I don't normally read such a fantasy type series but the characters kept me going even if the background made no sense to me.Lucky for me the 3 books were available at my library b/c I don't recommend reading them unless you have all three at hand and a few days to spare. I think it says combined it's over 1000 pages. The story reads as one big book. It's not 3 separate stories. It's an ongoing story. You instantly want to read the next book.Also it doesn't wrap up neatly like some series do. Not every character survived to the end of the story. And thankfully it didn't have a "ride off into the sunset" type of ending either. Yes, it leaves you wondering what the characters are doing now but what book doesn't? Overall I was glad to have read it but at the same time it's not on my re-read list. Added in 2013: I think it's finally that I wrote that in my initial review because I did end up re-reading this set plus I've read all the additional books in the series and the prequel series. I definitely enjoyed it more the second time around. Also it had been long enough that while I remembered the overall ending some things I didn't remember the outcome. I am definitely looking forward to the movie. We're reading this set for my book club. I challenged everyone to see if they've only read the set of 3 before the book club meeting or if they've read all of the series that is available. I have to admit I am not stopping my re-reading of the series at book 3.Re-read book 1 January 7th-8th, 2013. Re-read again August 21, 2013.Re-read book 2 January 9th-11th, 2013. Re-read again September 7-8, 2013.Re-read book 3 January 11th-12th, 2013 (I must have re-read it before the release of book 4th b/c I also have that I read it again April 07, 2011). Re-read September 8, 2013.