I honestly thought these were going to be pretty bad, and they're not. Don't think about the logic in them too much and you're good - move along at a nice clip, the broody boy is not too broody, the geeky friend is clearly kind of cool, and the girl... Well, she's less so.This is another book where everyone is gorgeous, except for the "clumsy" girl in the middle of it all. She self-describes as not pretty, but then there's the ever-present nod to "...but my mother is gorgeous, I wish I was as pretty as she is!" which really should be outlawed in YA as it's really just code for this girl being a late bloomer and don't you worry, she'll turn out just as stunning as mom. As the series went on, Clary struck me more and more as insanely selfish, which made it hard to root for her. She's also not particularly smart. She does dumb, headstrong things a lot, and doesn't appear to learn from mistakes and really does not apply much analytical thinking.The writing is good, specializing in Twihard-crack passages that are 90% hormone rush, but the rest of the writing works fine as well. Unfortunately as the series goes on, more and more of the plot relies on the old "I didn't tell you that for no good reason, and then terrible things happened because you didn't know!" routine.And here's one example of flaws that bunched together and made me kind of crazy:(view spoiler)[Clary's mother Jocelyn turns out to be a Shadowhunter. Not just a Shadowhunter, but the wife of the main bad guy. And Clary's the daughter of the main bad guy. And said bad guy has poisoned Jocelyn's firstborn. So what does Jocelyn do? Well, apparently she moves to the mundane world (fine) and doesn't tell her daughter a damn thing (...less fine) while also crippling her ability to remember (definitely NOT fine) and to top it all off, she cooks up a plan where if Bad Husband DOES appear again, she'll take a sleeping potion and that way she can't be questioned. Ta daaah!WHAT?! So Jocelyn has just abandoned her wholly ignorant daughter to a charismatic father who willingly poisons his own children. She checked out. Bye, honey, good luck with the psycho I never told you about. THIS MAKES NO SENSE. Then again, Jocelyn's character makes no sense in general; she's supposed to be some sort of awesome Shadowhunter, but in the third and fourth book we see her as a fluttery wreck who has to be married off ASAP. She weeps at the drop of a hat and is still 100% useless to her daughter.(hide spoiler)]It's pretty well-written fluff, but there's nothing really new here. At all. Just the regular bad boy trope with an angelic twist.