I remember someone explaining, chemically, how a cheese burger works. How the fatty meat combined with the fatty cheese and the white buns make a cholesterol parade in your blood stream that gives you endorphins that make you happy when you eat it. Something about that combination, seems to give our bodies a buzz. They were explaining that THAT'S why cheeseburgers and Mcdonald's in particular are so damn popular. They're addictive foods because we get addicted to the buzz of eating them.When it comes to reading, I'm not much different. Combine action + sex + supernatural and you may just have a readership. I guess I'm not the only one because publishers have jumped on this ship like it's the only one with booze and half naked young men and women grinding up against each other (see I'm trying to use subtle images to get you addicted to my reviews. Is it working?)They must have been delighted when Frost walked in the door because her novel is pretty much the combination of sex, action and supernatural elements without ANYTHING else. Most of the dialogue is about sex, arse kicking or discussing supernatural elements. This book is a cheeseburger. A big, greasy, delicious, ketchup covered cheeseburger.The sex orginates from Spike/Bones and Cat, our main protagonist who is a half vampire. Some other characters come into this story but they're not important because they're not having sex.They team up together to fight vampires. They stab, decapitate, crush, kick, punch, tear, bite, shove and knife their way through every single encounter. Kapowi! (See this is the action part of my review. Settle yourself in bitches, because you're about to get addicted!)The vampires in this book can be good or bad and their eyes glow green when they're using their Vampire Powers of Awesomeness TM. They mesmerize their prey into obediance and take "sips" out of them. (There! Bam! You're now addicted! Don't try to fight it, just give in and ride the pleasure wave)So, I enjoyed it in the guilty pleasure way that you enjoy a cheeseburger while you're eating it. Afterward though I felt vaguely dirty and lost. Life was sadly lacking in sex, action and supernatural. I went and kicked my husband in the head but to my IMMENSE surprise he didn't immedately tackle me and make love to me with blazing green eyes. I must be doing something wrong.The last part of the novel dragged a little bit until a vampire started throwing cars around - because we can't possibly go thirty pages without someone bleeding out of one or more places on their bodies...and then having sex. While being a vampire.See, I TOTALLY understand why this book was recommended to me. It's EXACTLY the kind of sexy, kinky shit I'm into and I really enjoyed it (so thanks!) but then I also recognize that this is a cheeseburger. It was SUCH a cheeseburger that I started to feel cholesterol moving through my synapses and forming some brain version of diabetes.Give it a go. It was fun, flirty, dirty, and quick (Oh my goodness, it sounds like a just described a hooker!)If I hadn't kept thinking to myself, "Damn you, Frost! Stop baiting me with supernatural smoochies!" then I would have been able to enjoy it more for what it is. Junk Food Fiction.Just remember, Kids. Junk Food Fiction is a SOMETIMES read.