Two and a half stars.If you love this, great. I'm happy you and Frost have found each other, and I wish you many hot and heavy installments. But I suggest moving on to another review, because I'm going to be very blunt: I remain unimpressed by paranormal romance, and Frost's Halfway to the Grave seems a rather mediocre example of the genre.I occasionally get tempted to try paranormal, searching for that one story to surprise me. In this case, a number of friend reviews, particularlyMimi's reviewand the fact thatIlona Andrews, co-author of one of my favorite UF series, is besties with Frost, inspired me to give her a try. Unfortunately, Frost has done nothing to change my opinion of the genre.Writing a Paranormal RomanceCharacters1) Alienated but speshul female lead who is insecure about her looks, inexperienced with dating, and trying to build identity away from her family. Preferably has under-developed magic or physical power2) Sexxy, hawt (other modern adjective) arrogant male lead who dresses well.3) Dull/clueless boy-next-door admirer (of the female lead)4) Vampires (sparkling optional). Should include a hawt-but-naughty vampire and an Evil vampire5) Clueless government representative (evilness optional)Plotting, romantic1) Female lead needs to learn to trust rakish male lead while male lead needs to fallin LOVEwith female2) Traditional sex scene3) Female needs to discover her sexual identity4) Semi-scandalous sex scene (if you are thirteen)5) Couple challenged by immortal vs. immortal issuePlotting, external conflict1) Evil versus goodWorld-building1) Substitution of 'real world' for world-buildingHalfway to the Grave is best summarized with an equation: Blade meets Buffy the Vampire Slayer, minus Buffy's compassion, intelligence and self-esteem.Writing was about average for the genre. Family backstory took a vaguely interesting angle on the heroine's background. Heroine had normal to above average amounts of TSTL moments. I did enjoy one scene with a disagreeable ghost, and even laughed out loud at the end of it. I can't say that I recommend it any more than any other PNR books. Worth noting it kept me awake on night shift, so not a waste of time.