A Review in Three Parts:I. The Analytical AnalysisII. The ReviewHere's the thing that surprised me the most about War &amp; Peace: it's extremely readable. It's not filled with difficult or outdated language. (At least in the P&amp;V translation.) It doesn't have long, hard to parse sentences. The action and dialogue is fairly straight-forward. The characters become easy to follow. If you are freaked out by War &amp; Peace because you think it'shard, it's not. Although you will have to power though the utterly dull and overly-populated intro party scene. Gah.However, War &amp; Peace is filled with endless diversions, especially history primers and theological discussions of death and minutia of battles. Tolstoy goes off on tangents, and it can take a while to get back to the story. I know some people love those tangents - I didn't. Tolstoy failed to reel me in, and make me care about the logistics of war, or his philosophies of physics in the social sciences.One quick note on the P&amp;V translation - they left in the original French and German with translations in footnotes/endnotes. I found their annotation style to be clunky at best. In retrospect, I would have chosen the Briggs translation, even though it's not available in ebook format.What's sad is that for the first half of the book, I read slowly, deliberately, and researched stuff outside of the book. I wanted War &amp; Peace to be a rich experience. I was reading this with quite a few people in a group, and thought I could really appreciate why people call this The Great Novel Evar! But after 650-odd pages and 6 weeks, I still wasn't engaged with the characters, the story, or the history. So I started to read faster just to get through it.I'm not saying it's a horrible book, though. The characters are well defined, and they grow and change over the years of war, struggle and collective bourgeoisie. Quite a few people in the group read-along fell in love with some of the major protagonists. Certainly for me the "home-front" story was more compelling than any other aspect of the story.Here's one way I can tell whether a book is rising above an average read for me. Do I think about the characters, the story, or the issues outside of reading the book? For War &amp; Peace, except for our group discussions, this was a resounding No. Discussions of ladies' facial hair was the most thrilling aspect.I had a hard time getting War &amp; Peace to rise about a "meh" for me, even considering it's proper historical literary provenance.III. Some Russian* Things I Learnedsamovar:troika:droshky:knout:britzka:shako:chibouk:papakha:*Not all of these things are Russian. But they are in War &amp; Peace.