Well, I've done it! I can finally say that I've conquered this somewhat complex beast, that is, War and Peace. I've had it on my to-read list for around ten years, and now, I too, can finally be at peace. The novel isn't as readable as I expected, especially when one compares it to other large novels, like Les Miserables, but, it was less taxing on the brain than I had imagined. It might have something to do with the English translation that I have.This is my second Tolstoy novel, the first being Anna Karenina, which I just adored. Tolstoy has a unique writing style, that I generally favour. You can tell that he was before his time in regards to humanity, in the way in which he writes about the characters and their flaws, etc. This novel taught me history about Napoleon, that to be honest, I wasn't even aware of.There are many scenes set in battle that I thought were just dire. They dragged, and were really quite dull. I get that there are going to be battle scenes, as we only need to refer to the title of the book, but, I noticed that the characters came in second in regards to military strategies and Napoleon. There are also many philosophical contemplations in this, so if you are greatly interested in this kind of thing, then this is certainly the book for you. Unfortunately, for me, I need something much more to make a story complete, and an abundance of philosophical ramblings, just didn't cut it.I'm probably making it sound that there is a total lack of character development here, which actually isn't the case. Pierre's character is interesting and so is Prince Andrey's, but, both were not interesting enough to make the story better for me. There were other, more significant characters that had more of a role, but unfortunately, there wasn't enough development to enable them to grow on me. I must add, at the end of the novel sits the epilogue. Don't worry about reading it, as it adds nothing to the story, except a kind of yawn factor.I probably shouldn't be doing so, but throughout this novel, I was comparing it to Victor Hugo's, Les Miserables. They are both hefty in size, and are both historical fiction, so with this information, I assumed that I'd love War and Peace. For me, Les Miserables exceeded my expectations and dazzled me from beginning to end. (Even throughout the rather detailed descriptions of The battle of Waterloo and the sewerage systems)It is inevitably, my favourite book of all time, and for me, War and Peace lives comfortably in it's shadow.