Small-time drug dealer with some ambition and a heart of gold (too corny?), Scott, gets himself and those around him into a bit of a rough spot (think blunt-force trauma, terminal gunshot wounds, and extreme emotional distress) when job offers start to meet up with that aforementioned, but limited ambition. Add a mysterious family history, a love-interest that makes Scott's situation more complicated, and a cast of other, seemingly half-decent (and some decidedly not decent), drug-trade related characters, along with some unanswered attacks in the nightclub scene and we have all the makings of a high-pressure, sure to be bloody thriller/mystery/street-drama.I am going to go ahead and address the err... elephant (err... tree elephant, elephant../man tree... whatever) in the room: there is this not-quite dead, but really should be dead tree that if you approach it from the correct direction has a segment that looks strikingly like an elephant head, but from another angle appears to be human-faced - intriguing plot piece, right? Sure..., but this is presented to us by drug and alcohol addled individuals and the promises of this titular element are not quite followed up on - don't worry too much about it, it's a mood setter more than anything else. The actual plot is quite good, it just doesn't have that much to do with a gnarled, creepy elephant/human-faced tree.The success of this book lies with the dual external and internal conflicts of it's main character and the building tension of his situation. The plot keeps moving in an organic and quick, if at times slightly too convenient, manner. This book does not rely on spectacular character building, there is some of that in there, but it's more of an allow yourself to fill-in-the-blanks kind of thing, which I honestly don't mind too much in this sort of book.This was a dark, gritty book that was not what I expected, but was nevertheless a good read. In my copy there were more than a few typos, punctuation errors, and the sort, but nothing so egregious that it distracted from the story for long.