Book Review3 out of 5 stars toThe Grapes of Wrath, written in 1939 byJohn Steinbeck. I might have an unpopular opinion when it comes to this book, as it was fine but nothing fantastic for me. I admit, I read this in middle school, nearly 25 years ago, and never went back to read it again. I tend not to like books about awful things as the main plot. I don't mind when bad things happen, or circumstances change, but when the entire book is about the pain and suffering of a family, it doesn't usually rise to the top of my TBR. I might consider giving this one another chance, but you have some major convincing to do. I like Steinbeck, too, so it's not so much an issue with the author as it is with the topic. The writing is strong. The imagery is good. The characters are well drawn. The setting is very detailed. But when it comes to the plight of a family against the hardships all around them, it's a difficult read. Part of my issue may have been a connection with the story. While I certainly don't have a real-life connection with my favorite books (mysteries, thrillers...), you need to have an understanding and recognition between what's happening and how you live. Coming from the northeast, in a major metropolitan city, 50+ years after these times, it doesn't start off as something I'm familiar with. I usually don't read things about this time period or space for those reasons. If the characters called to me, I might have liked it more. Don't get me wrong... it's a good book. And it's got a place in the world of classics. And it helped highlight a lot of wrongs that people weren't aware of. And maybe because I learned those lessons from other books and other places, this one just didn't seem all that top notch to me. That said, it's Steinbeck, so there is something of value here. No one can tell reality like he can.About MeFor those new to me or my reviews... here's the scoop: I read A LOT. I write A LOT. And now I blog A LOT. First the book review goes on Goodreads, and then I send it on over to my WordPress blog athttps://thisismytruthnow.com, where you'll also find TV &amp; Film reviews, the revealing and introspective 365 Daily Challenge and lots of blogging about places I've visited all over the world. And you can find all my social media profiles to get the details on the who/what/when/where and my pictures. Leave a comment and let me know what you think. Vote in the poll and ratings. Thanks for stopping by.