People tell me I have a short attention span. They mention, on some rare occasions, that I tend to space out easily. That one moment I'll be listening and paying attention and the next moment... Oh sparkly! With that I'm lost! It's amazing how many teachers have been the ones to remind me of my poor ability to pay attention. Remarkable really...What was I saying?Oh yeah! So it takes a little bit to capture my attention and to keep it. Usually an abnormal amount of sex, violence or suspense will do the trick. Or if the writing is super-duper fabulous!(By the way, if only you knew how many times I've gotten distracted and forgotten to keep typing, you'd be surprised! Or maybe not...)Anyway, point of the matter is that Marr has my number. She knows what people like me are like. It's insidious really. Her nefarious schemes to keep my wavering attention with sex and horror have not gone unnoticed though! I'm onto her! What does she think of her audience? That they'll overlook the TERRIBLE editing job and shaky story-telling with sex?Okay, so maybe it worked a little... just a little bit. Because every time you start getting bored, some hot guy starts putting the moves on, or his fingers start roaming, or flirting starts happening. That, or you think you're about ready to yawn and some evil person shows up and starts hurting other things.It took me a little while to get what she was doing. What with the oral sex and the obvious lust inducing moments, it was hard to force my brain into action. I had to keep refocusing, shaking it off and trying to see the book for what it was as opposed to imagining half-naked men with incredible bodies all oiled up and posing...Okay, never mind, back to the point. In a market flooded with cookie-cutter YA paranormal and Urban Fantasy novels, this one is trying to be different. It's trying to be contrary. Marr must figure that if fails, at least there's lots of pretty to look at.Well, it did fail to be different. It was entirely forgettable. In fact I'm having trouble remembering everything already and I just finished it today. I suppose of course that if it wants to fall back on pretty sparkly men (oh, I'm sorry, this one GLOWS. It's different, see? At least this one doesn't try to hide the fact that he's a fairy) that's ITS prerogative, however on a hawtness scale of 1 - 10, I rate Keenan and Seth a bit, fat, walloping 'meh'. How could they possible compare to Clayton? Or Barrons, V'Lane or Howl, Christoph, Con or any of the other REAL literary crushes I have!In fact I've had to create a whole new bookshelf in honour of this book. I'm calling it my 'Meh' Shelf. It's for books like this one (don't be deceived by the stars, it's not really 3, it's 2 1/2) that aren't terrible, aren't fantastic, and that I'll barely remember in a week or so.So if you want to read some fairly PG schmexing and some interesting Fae mythology then go ahead. Give it a shot.Maybe if I keep reading books like this, I'll cure my insatiable fascination with sparkly things. It's what got me into this trouble to begin with. I was looking for a diamond in the rough but this book was pretty much mostly rough.