I'm getting really annoyed with this series. I feel like it's going absolutely nowhere. The authors are clearly trying very hard to sound like ''teenagers'' and just ending up sounding completely ridiculous. They really underestimate the intelligence of the readers.The repetition is completely insane. Take out all the pages that recap the story so far, and the book would be at least two hundred pages shorter. Zoey retells the story to us, the characters retell the story to each other, and the story is retold to any newcomers... it's ridiculous. I doubt many people are picking the series up at book five, and it doesn't make sense to accommodate the few people that might.I wish Zoey would just leave. I realize the series is supposed to be about her, but I simply don't care anymore. I'm completely sick of her, and I can't see how anyone wouldn't be. She kissed four difference guys in the space of four hundred pages. She talks about other girls being ''sluts'' and ''easy'' when she's the exact definition of those words. She's so dense, and takes forever to figure things out. She spends half the book ranting about how ''controlling'' and ''possessive'' Erik is, when all he did was ask her to not go outside (where evil monsters are literally waiting to kill her) with the ex-boyfriend that she's gone back to so many times I've lost count. She acts all high and mighty, and seems completely oblivious to how hypocritical she's become.The stereotypes are really getting on my nerves. We get it, Damien and Jack are gay. You don't have to tell us this every time they appear. Just because they're gay, does not mean they do everything in a gay way. They do not cough in a gay way, they do not smile in a gay way, and they're not prone to fainting simply because they're gay. Yet Zoey tells us these things every time they appear in the story. She even tells us to ''get over'' the fact that they're gay, even though she's the only one who seems to be obsessed with it. Also, Krashima was completely unnecessary. Just because she's black doesn't mean she has to fill every stereotype there is and talk like she's never been in an English class. The ''twins'' also need to disappear. I'm sick of being told they're ''not actually twins'' every time their names are mentioned. Oh, and the ''vocab'' thing is getting ridiculous. They go on about how Damien uses big words all the time. Newsflash, Zoey:Carnage is not a big complicated word.I'm giving the book three stars because of Aphrodite... and Darius. They're the only two characters that make the series worth while, and they're one of the only reasons I'm going to continue with it. I really wish all the characters would stop giving Aphrodite a hard time. She was bitch for about half of the first book, and the rest seem to be unable to let it go. She's clearly changed, she's clearly a nice person, and she's definitely the only one in the book with half a brain. I think her relationship with Darius is interesting, and I love reading about it. They're literally the only good thing left about this series.