Hunted is the fifth book in the House of Night series and continues from Untamed by only a day or two.Zoey and her friends are now hiding out in the tunnels with the red fledgelings, a different kind of fledgeling who change into a different kind of vampyre, and one which Zoey doesn't know if she can trust yet. Stevie Rae is badly hurt by an arrow piercing through her chest after being fired by the newly risen red fledgeling, Stark. All the gang is pretty freaked out by what happened at the end of Untamed and band together to decide the best course of action.Erik is also one of the group hiding out and at first things are awkward between him and Zoey, but they decide to forgive each other. Although Heath, Zoey's other ex-boyfriend, are no longer imprinted, he seeks her out at the tunnels and wants to talk. But while she is struggling with her love for Heath and the knowledge that it's best for him if they don't see each other again, Zoey is attacked by one of the raven-men and is now fighting for her life.Unfortunately, to save herself, Zoey has to drink Heath's blood and so they are imprinted again, at the delight of Heath, but Erik is definitely not happy. But things still do not look good for Zoey so they have to take her back to the House of Night, to Neferet, who is the only one who can heal her. But it feels as though they are entering a different House of Night, one filled with raven-men, fear and Kalona, an evil fallen angel who rose from the Earth at the end of Untamed.At the end of the last book, Aphrodite was coming through as a very strong character, and was slowly becoming my favourite. After reading Hunted I can now say she *is* my favourite. She still likes the boys but she doesn't let them take over her life. She's funny and sexy as well as strong-willed and determined. I just love all her witty retorts. To me she's the most level headed character and to be honest the most strong, even more so than Zoey.Zoey still has boy troubles and continues to make them worse, but after reading my previous reviews, I am sure you are now well aware how this part of the series has my eyes rolling. However, the action is still there in Hunted, which kept me reading until the last page.Verdict:Although Hunted is quite a roller coaster ride and a good read, it didn't engage me as much as the previous four books. I admit I am getting tired of Zoey and all her boyfriend issues, and the choices she makes when around them, but I'm still looking forward to reading Tempted, the next book in the series.