3.5/5I'm glad I read this in class because I wouldn't have gotten much out of it otherwise. Shakespeare may be Shakespeare, but I am also I, and I know my tastes well enough to have before reading this thought "Bro I love certain pieces of your work but I'm fairly certain this is not going to have a honeymoon ending." Comedies tend to make me nervous with their glee and their joy and their soap bubble ideologies, and while the playwright did some wonderfully complex things with gender and the tropes of romance, this would have gone much better seen rather than read. The resulting decrease in reading comprehension and increase in visual hilarity would have made the actual(view spoiler)[honeymoon(hide spoiler)]ending (is that really a spoiler? it's a comedy, after all) of the play closer to my own enjoyment.I didn't start seriously contemplating this play until the first group presentation (this and 'King Lear' are being taught with groups taking apart an act a piece. group work. ugh) put for a discussion question about Orsino's ridiculous conceptions of romance. The great thing about these survey courses is the natural inclination of my brain to store away my most recent readings for random connection time with future reads becomes useful for more than just review writing. Before the class reached Shakespeare, we were on King Arthur and Sir Gawain and all that religiously strictured socioeconomic academics like to call 'courtly love', a mental state that many a male sonnet writer in the line of Spencer and Raleigh utilized and those such Wroth and Shakespeare made a mockery of. Shakespeare does a lot more to deconstruct the ideals of love and its lot in his sonnets than this particular play, but picking up on subtle critiques propagates its own breed of readerly pleasure.As for the gender. I'm also getting this from others in terms of character foils, which I rarely pay attention to and may need to start doing so in light of what can be derived from this work. If you think about it, Viola and Olivia are the sort of characters that rarely coexist because, at their most basic tenets, they're the same character archetype. They're both young, they're both within the same class bracket, they were both raised with brothers and are at the time of the play completely without parents. The clincher, of course, is that they're both female, a gender that is rarely going to be differentiated along complex and humanizing lines by the creator because, frankly, it's not going to be necessary with all the well wrought men running around. The reason why this is worthy of note is how both characters would normally have both been rich wilting delicate flower beauty types, making out the condition as a natural tendency of women rather than the inevitable result of a constricting and emotionally deprived situation except, well, they're not. Sure, Viola disguises herself as a man, but no one catches her out for acting in such a way that could not be anything other than "womanly".For further character foil business, see Malvolio and the treatment of his acted out fantasies versus Viola's fully embraced desires of illusion and dreams. One cannot expect to play only half the fool and fully win the day.